Correction: Depression in paediatric chronic fatigue syndrome.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
What should nurses do on post-stroke depression? A global systematic assessment of clinical practice guidelines.
Post-stroke depression (PSD) is the most common mental disorder in post-stroke patients. Yet, the recommendations related to nursing in clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) have not been systematically sorted out. This study aimed to assess the methodological quality of current CPGs related to PSD and develop an algorithm using nursing process as a framework for nurses.
A systematic assessment of CPGs.
A systematic search for relevant CPGs published between 2017 and 2022 was conducted. Appraisal of Guidelines for Research and Evaluation Ⅱ instrument was used to assess methodological quality. Recommendations related to nursing practice from high-quality CPGs were summarised and developed into an algorithm to provide reference for the standardised construction of nursing practice scheme.
497 records were initially identified from database searches and other sources. Finally, 12 CPGs were included, of which 6 were rated as high quality. A total of 35 recommendations from the 6 highest-scoring CPGs were summarised and used to develop an algorithm.
This study indicated deficiencies and variability in current available CPGs. Based on six high-quality CPGs, we developed an algorithm to facilitate nurses' adherence to CPGs and contribute to evidence-based nursing. In the future, more nursing specialists should participate in the formulation of the CPGs to provide nursing insights.
© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Evaluation of emotion-centric psychological interventions for chronic pain: protocol for a systematic review and meta-analysis.
Chronic pain, defined as pain persisting longer than 3 months, is more than an unpleasant sensory experience. Persistent negative emotions and emotional comorbidities, such as depression and anxiety, plague people with chronic pain leading to worsening pain intensity and increasing disability. While cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT) is the gold standard psychological treatment, recent evidence highlights that CBT lacks efficacy for the physical and emotional aspects of chronic pain. Increasingly, researchers are investigating emotion-centric psychological therapies. While treatment modalities vary, these interventions frequently target understanding emotions, and train individuals for an emotionally adaptive response. The aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis is to quantify the efficacy of emotion-centric interventions for the physical and emotional characteristics of chronic pain.
Electronic databases (EMBASE, PubMed, PsychINFO, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, CINAHL and Web of Science) will be systematically searched from inception to 28 April 2022 for randomised controlled trials. Studies that compare an emotion-centric intervention with another form of treatment or placebo/control for adults (≥18 years old) with chronic pain will be included. All treatment modes (eg, online or in-person), any duration and group-based or individual treatments will be included. Studies that do not investigate at least one emotion-centric treatment will be excluded. The primary outcome is pain intensity. Secondary outcomes include emotion dysregulation, depression, anxiety, affect, safety and intervention compliance. A quantitative synthesis using a random effects meta-analysis will be adopted. Risk of bias will be evaluated using Cochrane Risk of Bias V.2.0 with the certainty of evidence assessed according to Recommendation, Assessment, Development and Evaluation. Data permitting, subgroup analysis will be conducted for intervention type and pain condition.
Ethical approval is not required for this systematic review. Results may inform an efficacy study examining a new emotion-centric intervention for chronic pain. Dissemination will be through peer-reviewed publications and in conference presentations.
CRD42021266815.
© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Can air purification improve sleep quality? A 2-week randomised-controlled crossover pilot study in healthy adults.
Insufficient quantity and quality of sleep is a public health concern that can be addressed by interventions for improving sleep outcomes. Environmental factors such as poor air quality are a potential target for intervention, particularly in light of associations between air pollution and worse sleep. The aim of this pilot study was to investigate the effects of using an air purifier on sleep outcomes and mood in 30 healthy adults. There were two conditions: (i) air purifier with a high-efficiency particulate air filter; (ii) air purifier with a placebo filter. Participants undertook both conditions, each over 2 weeks with a 2-week washout, following a counterbalanced, double-blind design. Daily sleep outcomes were measured with actigraphy watches and sleep diaries, whilst daily mood was assessed with the Positive and Negative Affect Schedule. The Insomnia Severity Index, the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, and symptoms of anxiety and depression were measured pre- and post-. The purifier filter was associated with increased total sleep time for an average of 12 min per night, and increased total time in bed for an average of 19 min per night relative to the placebo. There were several sleep and mood outcomes for which no changes were observed, and time awake after sleep onset was higher for the purifier filter. Air quality was better during the high-efficiency particulate air filter condition. These findings offer positive indications that environmental interventions that improve air quality can have benefits for sleep outcomes in healthy populations who are not exhibiting clinical sleep disturbances.
© 2022 The Authors. Journal of Sleep Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Sleep Research Society.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Are static posturography-assisted biofeedback exercises effective in Parkinson's disease?
 Parkinson disease (PD) is a progressive condition that causes disorders in movement and balance.
 To evaluate the effectiveness of static posturography-assisted biofeedback exercises in PD-related balance disorder.
 We screened 83 patients, 48 of whom were enrolled, and 41 completed the study. The sample was randomized into two groups, one submitted to static posturography-assisted biofeedback exercises and the other, to a conventional exercise program. The patients in the biofeedback group (
n
 = 20) performed biofeedback exercises in addition to conventional balance exercises. Those in the conventional exercise group (
n
 = 21) performed classic balance exercises. Both groups were treated for 20 minutes per session 3 times a week for 6 weeks. The patients were evaluated using the Hoehn and Yahr Scale, the Movement Disorder Society-Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS), the Berg Balance Scale (BBS), the Tinetti Gait and Balance Assessment (TGBA), the Timed Up and Go Test (TUG), the Tandem Stance Test (TST), a Turkish version of the Stanford Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), and the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) before and at the end of the treatment.
 No statistically significant differences were observed between the two groups in terms of the MDS-UPDRS, BBS, TGBA, TST, TUG, HAQ, or BDI measurements before and after the treatment (
p
 > 0.05).
 Improved balance parameters were observed following balance training in the patients with PD, although static posturography-assisted biofeedback exercises appeared to provide no additional benefit. However, larger, randomized controlled trials are needed to investigate their effectiveness.
Academia Brasileira de Neurologia. This is an open access article published by Thieme under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonDerivative-NonCommercial License, permitting copying and reproduction so long as the original work is given appropriate credit. Contents may not be used for commercial purposes, or adapted, remixed, transformed or built upon. (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tracking the impact of multiple sclerosis on employment status: the development of a questionnaire.
 Multiple sclerosis (MS) has a negative effect on employment status.
 To present the preliminary results of a special questionnaire designed to collect employment information on patients with MS.
 The questionnaire on the impact of MS on employment status was completed by 63 patients. Fatigue, cognition, and depression were also evaluated, and 33 healthy participants were recruited as a control group.
 Regarding the patients' employment status, we found rates of 31.7% of full-time employment, 28.6% of part-time employment, 7.9% of unemployment due to MS, 4.8% of housewives, 1.6% retirement due to age, 15.9% of retirement due to disability, 7.9% of medical leave due to MS, and 1.6% of medical leave for other reasons. The rate of unemployment among the patients was significantly higher compared with that of the control group. Out of 38 working patients, 31% had been absent from work for the previous 3 months due to MS, and 50% had to make changes in their work to remain employed. Out of the 19 unemployed patients, 78% said that walking difficulties were the cause of unemployment, while 52% thought cognitive impairment was the cause.
 The questionnaire provides a record of the employment status of patients with MS and describes the impact on work from their point of view.
Academia Brasileira de Neurologia. This is an open access article published by Thieme under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonDerivative-NonCommercial License, permitting copying and reproduction so long as the original work is given appropriate credit. Contents may not be used for commercial purposes, or adapted, remixed, transformed or built upon. (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Patients With Serious Mental Illness Can Engage in Tobacco Treatment Trials and Tobacco Cessation Interventions During Cancer Treatment.
More than half of individuals with serious mental illness (SMI) smoke, contributing to premature cancer mortality. A cancer diagnosis provides an opportunity to assist with smoking cessation; however, supportive oncology trials frequently exclude patients with SMI. To fill this gap, we examined differences in engagement and tobacco cessation in a pragmatic clinical trial.
We recruited 303 participants from two National Cancer Institute-designated Comprehensive Cancer Centers, of which 10% had prior diagnoses of SMI (major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia spectrum disorders). We compared self-reported smoking behaviors, patient attitudes and beliefs about cessation, and rates of trial completion, engagement, and smoking abstinence among recently diagnosed patients with cancer with and without SMI. Six months after trial completion, we completed qualitative interviews on barriers and facilitators to tobacco cessation in a random sample of participants with SMI.
Trial participants with SMI had similar motivation to quit smoking as those without SMI. Additionally, participants with SMI had a similar ability to engage in a tobacco treatment trial (6.5 counseling sessions completed 
v
 7.3 sessions) and benefit from tobacco treatment as those without SMI (32.3% 
v
 27.8% 6-month quit rates).
Patients with cancer and SMI were able to engage in and benefit from a tobacco cessation trial integrated into cancer care. A cancer diagnosis provides an opportunity to assist patients with SMI with smoking cessation referrals and treatment. Pragmatic supportive oncology trials that include a diverse population of adults with SMI are needed to inform care delivery and improve cancer outcomes for patients with SMI and cancer.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Long-Term Outcome of Severe Metabolic Acidemia in ICU Patients, a BICAR-ICU Trial Post Hoc Analysis.
Long-term prognosis of ICU survivors is a major issue. Severe acidemia upon ICU admission is associated with very high short-term mortality. Since the long-term prognosis of these patients is unknown, we aimed to determine the long-term health-related quality of life and survival of these patients.
Post hoc analysis of a multicenter, randomized, controlled trial.
Twenty-six French ICUs.
Day 28 critically ill survivors admitted with severe acidemia and enrolled in the BICAR-ICU trial.
Sodium bicarbonate versus no sodium bicarbonate infusion according to the randomization group.
The primary outcome was health-related quality of life (HRQoL) measured with the 36-item Short Form Health Survey and the EuroQol 5-D questionnaires. Secondary outcomes were mortality, end-stage renal disease treated with renal replacement therapy or renal transplantation, place of residence, professional status, and ICU readmission. HRQoL was reduced with no significant difference between the two groups. HRQoL was reduced particularly in the role-physical health domain (64/100 ± 41 in the control group and 49/100 ± 43 in the bicarbonate group, p = 0.28), but it was conserved in the emotional domains (96/100 ± 19 in the control group and 86/100 ± 34 in the bicarbonate group, p = 0.44). Forty percent of the survivors described moderate to severe problems walking, and half of the survivors described moderate to severe problems dealing with usual activities. Moderate to severe anxiety or depression symptoms were present in one third of the survivors. Compared with the French general population, HRQoL was decreased in the survivors mostly in the physical domains. The 5-year overall survival rate was 30% with no significant difference between groups.
Long-term HRQoL was decreased in both the control and the sodium bicarbonate groups of the BICAR-ICU trial and was lower than the general population, especially in the physical domains.
Copyright © 2022 by the Society of Critical Care Medicine and Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Incidence and risk factors for postintensive care syndrome in a cohort of critically ill patients.
To determine the incidence of postintensive care syndrome in a cohort of critically ill patients admitted to the intensive care unit and to identify risk factors related to its development in the physical, cognitive and mental health areas.
This was a prospective observational cohort study developed in the intensive care unit of a university hospital. Patients with intensive care unit stays equal to or longer than one week and the need for mechanical ventilation for more than 3 days, shock or delirium were included in the study. Demographic variables, reasons for admission, diagnoses, sedation, type of mechanical ventilation used, complications and length of stay were recorded. A univariate analysis was performed to identify risk factors related to postintensive care syndrome. The scales used for the assessment of the different spheres were Barthel, Pfeiffer, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale and Impact of Event Scale-6. The main variables of interest were postintensive care syndrome incidence overall and by domains. Risk factors were examined in each of the health domains (physical, cognitive and mental health).
Eighty-seven patients were included. The mean Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II score was 16.5. The mean number of intensive care unit days was 17. The incidence of global postintensive care syndrome was 56.3% (n = 49, 95%CI 45.8 - 66.2%). The incidence of postintensive care syndrome in each of the spheres was 32.1% (physical), 11.5% (cognitive), and 36.6% (mental health).
The incidence of postintensive care syndrome is 56.3%. The mental health sphere is the most frequently involved. The risk factors are different depending on the area considered.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The association between psychological factors and self-care in patients with heart failure: An integrative review.
This integrative review aims to describe the current evidence concerning the relationship between a broad range of psychological factors (depression, depressive symptoms, anxiety, stress, and type-D personality) and self-care in patients with heart failure.
Six electronic databases were searched and keywords were used to identify potential eligible studies published within the last 10 years. To be eligible, individuals with heart failure aged 18 years or older and who were included in any type of observational study that examined the association between psychological factors and self-care were considered. Twenty articles were included, and 16 of them reported that depression/depressive symptoms were associated with poorer self-care, after controlling for age, sex, education level, cardiac history, or comorbidities. Five studies found that self-care confidence/self-efficacy mediates the relationship between depression/depressive symptoms and self-care. The association between depression/depressive symptoms and self-care varied in assessment methods and statistical approaches. Seven studies showed an inverse association between anxiety and self-care. Four studies found a stronger association between self-care and depression compared to the relationship between self-care and other psychological factors. Stress and type-D personality were both associated with self-care in four studies.
Depression/Depressive symptoms and anxiety were found to be inversely associated with self-care in patients with heart failure. Depression exhibited a stronger impact on self-care than other psychological factors. Limited studies assessed stress and type-D personality; the results should be considered with caution. Further studies are warranted on different psychological factors and their underlying mechanisms in individuals with heart failure.
© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Illness perceptions and health literacy are strongly associated with health-related quality of life, anxiety and depression in patients with coronary heart disease: results from the EUROASPIRE V cross-sectional survey.
To 1) Describe the sociodemographic and risk factor profiles of a sample of patients with coronary disease, 2) Explore associations between illness perceptions and health literacy with sociodemographic characteristics and risk factors, health-related quality of life, anxiety and depression.
Conducted as part of the ESC Prevention of CVD Project and EUROASPIRE V survey, patients were consecutively and retrospectively identified 6 months to 2 years after an acute event or elective procedure from 12 countries and interviewed. 3,408 participants (76% male, mean age 64 years) were recruited, 16% were smokers, 38% obese, 60% physically inactive and 41% hypertensive. 40% had attended cardiac rehabilitation. More threatening illness perceptions were associated with female gender (P < 0.0001), lower income (P < 0.0001), lower education (P = 0.02), obesity (P < 0.0001), sedentary behaviour (P < 0.0001) and diabetes (P < 0.0001). Poorer health literacy was associated with obesity (P = 0.02) and sedentary behaviour (P = 0.0001). Threatening illness perceptions were strongly associated with anxiety, depression and poorer ratings of health-related quality of life after multivariable adjustment (all P < 0.001). Poor health literacy was associated with anxiety and depression (P < 0.0001) and poorer ratings of health-related quality of life (HeartQol scores P = 0.03). Results were consistent across regions of Europe, age, gender and socioeconomic strata.
Interventions like cardiac rehabilitation should be targeted at vulnerable groups given the strong associations between more threatening illness perceptions, lower health literacy, lower health related quality of life, and higher levels of anxiety and depression. The delivery and content of these interventions should be accessible for those with low health literacy.
© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Association between biopsychosocial factors and self-reported COVID-19 clinical complications in a Brazilian city.
This study aimed to analyze the existence of an association between the biopsychosocial profile of people affected and the number of self-reported clinical complications from COVID-19 in a Brazilian city.
This is a cross-sectional (baseline) study, nested in a cohort study, carried out with 217 confirmed cases of COVID-19, interviewed from January to October 2021, during home visits, in a city in the south of Minas Gerais, Brazil. A structured questionnaire with the KoboToolbox resource was used. The independent variables were sociodemographic and clinical profile (comorbidities), quality of life, post-traumatic stress, anxiety, depression, and social support. The dependent variable was the number of self-reported clinical complications from COVID-19. The multivariate linear regression technique was adopted for the analyses.
The participants reported multiple clinical complications from COVID-19. There were "four or more" complications in 94.6% of the cases. Having a history of high blood pressure was associated with more complications post-SARS-CoV-2 infection, whereas having a caregiver and presenting with post-traumatic stress were associated with fewer COVID-19 complications.
The multisystemic nature of the complications caused by COVID-19 and the associations identified emphasizes the need for an integrated approach to patients and for studies that monitor the effects of the disease on the demands placed on health systems, aiming to better understand and address them.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
So far but yet so near: Examining the buffering effect of perceived social support on the psychological impact of Spanish lockdown.
The main objective of this study was to examine the moderating or buffering effect of social support (SS) perceived by university students on the psychological impact of lockdown on mental health. Specifically, a total of 826 participants (622 women) completed an online survey that included standardized measures of anxiety (Generalised Anxiety Disorder-7), depression (Patient Health Questionnaire-9), and irritability (Brief Irritability Test), as well as measures of stressors, perceived SS, and self-perceived change in mental health. The results of hierarchical regression analyses suggest that SS contributes toward attenuating the negative impact of academic stressors, general overload, and interpersonal conflict on the indicators of psychological well-being; however, moderation analysis only confirms the buffering effect for symptoms of anxiety. In conclusion, it is suggested that SS networks need to be strengthened as a basic means of protecting health and well-being during unexpected disasters.
© 2022 The Authors. Journal of Community Psychology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A cross-sectional study on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on psychological outcomes: Multiple indicators and multiple causes modeling.
Although the psychological impact of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has been evaluated in the literature, further research is needed, particularly on post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and psychological outcomes, is needed. This study aims to investigate the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on psychological outcomes (depression, anxiety, and insomnia). A cross-sectional study using an online survey was conducted using the following instruments: Impact of Event Scale-Revised (IES-R), Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9), Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD-7), and Insomnia Severity Index (ISI). Confirmatory factor analysis (CFA), structural equation model (SEM), multiple indicators and multiple causes (MIMIC) modeling, and differential item functioning (DIF) were performed to analyze the collected data. According to the results, participants with PTSD (n = 360) showed a higher level of depression, anxiety, and insomnia than those without PTSD (n = 639). Among the participants, 36.5% experienced moderate to severe symptoms of depression, and 32.6% had mild depressive symptoms. Moreover, 23.7% of participants experienced moderate to severe anxiety symptoms, and 33.1% had mild anxiety symptoms. In addition, 51.5% of participants experienced symptoms of insomnia. In conclusion, the PTSD caused by COVID-19 is significantly associated with depression, anxiety, and insomnia at the level of latent constructs and observed variables.
Copyright: © 2022 Aljaberi et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The impact of work interference with family on depressive symptoms among married working women: A longitudinal panel study.
This study aimed to investigate the effects of work interference with family (WIF) on depressive symptoms among married working women.
Data from 2014‒2018 of the Korean Longitudinal Survey of Women and Families were used. Only married women living with their husbands and wage workers were included, whereas those diagnosed with depression at the baseline year and those with missing values were excluded. A total of 1,504 individuals were included as the study population. The impact of WIF on depressive symptoms was analyzed using the generalized estimating equation model with a logit link.
After adjusting for all the potential confounding variables, it was found that WIF had an effect on depressive symptoms. Women whose work interfered with their family were 1.58 times more likely to experience depressive symptoms than those who did not experience WIF (95% Confidence interval (CI): 1.30‒1.92). WIF due to irregular working hours had the highest odds ratio for depression (Adjusted odds ratio (OR): 2.01, 95% CI: 1.32‒3.08). Women with WIF were more likely to develop depressive symptoms when they had two or more children (With 2 children, Adjusted OR: 1.69, 95% CI: 1.31‒2.18; With 3 or more children, Adjusted OR: 1.63, 95% CI: 1.07-2.49).
Thus, married working women who experienced WIF were found to be at a higher risk of developing depressive symptoms. Therefore, considering how prevailing stereotypes that roles of men and women are separated can harm women's mental health, policy measures should be implemented to ensure women's quality of life based on the work-family balance.
Copyright: © 2022 Yun et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The effect of mindfulness on the inflammatory, psychological and biomechanical domains of adult patients with low back pain: A randomized controlled clinical trial.
This study aims to study the effect of mindfulness-based program on the psychological, biomechanical and inflammatory domains of patients with chronic low back pain.
A multicentre randomized and controlled clinical trial of parallel groups in patients with chronic low back pain between March 2019 to March 2020. Participants with no experience in mindfulness based intervention, were randomized to receive (36 patients) or not (34 patients) mindfulness-based stress reduction program for chronic back pain (MBSR-CBP). The program was performed in 9 sessions. Patients with chronic low back pain due to symptomatic discopathy (degenerative disc disease or herniated disc) were included. The principal outcome was changes in the blood level of cortisol and cytokines (tumor necrosis factor- α (TNF- α), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-17 (IL-17)). Secondary outcomes (psychological factors, pain, and quality of life) were measured by validated questionnaires.
Of the 96 randomized patients, 70 who completed the study were included in the analysis (mean [range] age: 53 [33-73] years; 66% females). MBSR-CBP stopped the increase in cortisol, and reduced pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1β (p = 0.05). It reduced depression (p = 0.046) and stress (p = 0.0438), perceived pain (p &lt; 0.0001), and limitations related to health (p &lt; 0.0001). It also increased the physical function (p = 0.002) and sleep quality (p = 0.05). Furthermore, it significantly increased life satisfaction (0.006), well-being (p = 0.001) and vitality (p &lt; 0.0001). It also increased self-compassion (p &lt; 0.0001) and significantly reduced the overidentification (p&lt;0.0001) and catastrophization (p = 0.002).
MBSR-CBP could be part of a multidisciplinary approach in the management of patients suffering from chronic low back pain.
Copyright: © 2022 Diez et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Characteristics of Individuals in the United States Who Used Opioids During Pregnancy.
Introduction:
 Opioid use has disproportionally impacted pregnant people and their fetuses. Previous studies describing opioid use among pregnant people are limited by geographic location, type of medical coverage, and small sample size. We described characteristics of a large, diverse group of pregnant people who were enrolled in the Environmental Influences on Child Health Outcomes (ECHO) Program, and determined which characteristics were associated with opioid use during pregnancy. 
Materials and Methods:
 Cross-sectional data obtained from 21,905 pregnancies of individuals across the United States enrolled in the ECHO between 1990 and 2021 were analyzed. Medical records, laboratory testing, and self-report were used to determine opioid-exposed pregnancies. Multiple imputation methods using fully conditional specification with a discriminant function accounted for missing characteristics data. 
Results:
 Opioid use was present in 2.8% (
n
 = 591) of pregnancies. The majority of people who used opioids in pregnancy were non-Hispanic White (67%) and had at least some college education (69%). Those who used opioids reported high rates of alcohol use (32%) and tobacco use (39%) during the pregnancy; although data were incomplete, only 5% reported heroin use and 86% of opioid use originated from a prescription. After adjustment, non-Hispanic White race, pregnancy during the years 2010-2012, higher parity, tobacco use, and use of illegal drugs during pregnancy were each significantly associated with opioid use during pregnancy. In addition, maternal depression was associated with increased odds of opioid use during pregnancy by more than two-fold (adjusted odds ratio 2.42, 95% confidence interval: 1.95-3.01). 
Conclusions:
 In this large study of pregnancies from across the United States, we found several factors that were associated with opioid use among pregnant people. Further studies examining screening for depression and polysubstance use may be useful for targeted interventions to prevent detrimental opioid use during pregnancy, while further elucidation of the reasons for use of prescription opioids during pregnancy should be further explored.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Barriers to and Facilitators of Engaging With and Adhering to Guided Internet-Based Interventions for Depression Prevention and Reduction of Pain-Related Disability in Green Professions: Mixed Methods Study.
Internet-based interventions (IBIs) are effective for the prevention and treatment of mental disorders and are valuable additions for improving routine care. However, the uptake of and adherence to IBIs are often limited. To increase the actual use of IBIs, it is important to identify factors for engaging with and adhering to IBIs.
We qualitatively evaluated barriers and facilitators regarding a portfolio of guided IBIs in green professions (farmers, gardeners, and foresters).
Interview participants were selected from 2 randomized controlled trials for either the prevention of depression (Prevention of Depression in Agriculturists [PROD-A]) or the reduction of pain interference (Preventive Acceptance and Commitment Therapy for Chronic Pain in Agriculturists [PACT-A]) in green professions. The intervention group in PROD-A (N=180) participated in an IBI program, receiving access to 1 of 6 symptom-tailored IBIs. The intervention group in PACT-A (N=44) received access to an IBI for chronic pain. Overall, 41 semistructured qualitative interviews were conducted and transcribed verbatim. Barriers and facilitators were identified via inductive qualitative content analysis, with 2 independent coders reaching almost perfect intercoder reliability (Cohen κ=0.92). A quantitative follow-up survey (30/41, 73%) was conducted to validate the results. Subgroup analyses were performed based on intervention characteristics.
We identified 42 barriers and 26 facilitators, which we assigned to 4 superordinate categories related to the intervention (20 barriers; 17 facilitators), work (4 barriers; 1 facilitator), individual (13 barriers; 8 facilitators), and technical (5 barriers; 0 facilitators) aspects. Key barriers (identified by at least 50% of the interviewees) were time-consuming work life (29/40, 73%) and time-consuming private life (23/40, 58%). Similarly, the most frequently identified facilitators included presence of motivation, curiosity, interest and perseverance (30/40, 75%), flexible time management at work (25/40, 63%), and support from family and friends (20/40, 50%). Although agreement with barriers in the quantitative follow-up survey was rather low (mean 24%, SD 11%), agreement with facilitators was substantially higher (mean 80%, SD 13%). Differences in agreement rates were found particularly between intervention completers and noncompleters. Completers agreed significantly more often that perceived IBI success; being motivated, curious, interested, and perseverant; and having a persisting level of psychological strain have been facilitating. Noncompleters agreed more often with experiencing the e-coach contact as insufficient and technical problems as hindering for intervention completion.
Based on these results, strategies such as customization of modules for more flexible and adaptive use; video chat options with the e-coach; options to facilitate social support by family, friends, or other participants; or using prompts to facilitate training completion can be derived. These approaches could be evaluated in further quantitative research designs in terms of their potential to enhance intervention use in this occupational group.
German Clinical Trials Register DRKS00014000, https://tinyurl.com/3bukfr48; German Clinical Trials Register DRKS0001461, https://tinyurl.com/ebsn4sns.
©Lina Braun, Johanna Freund, Janika Thielecke, Harald Baumeister, David Daniel Ebert, Ingrid Titzler. Originally published in JMIR Mental Health (https://mental.jmir.org), 09.11.2022.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Preexisting Neuropsychiatric Conditions and Associated Risk of Severe COVID-19 Infection and Other Acute Respiratory Infections.
Evidence indicates that preexisting neuropsychiatric conditions confer increased risks of severe outcomes from COVID-19 infection. It is unclear how this increased risk compares with risks associated with other severe acute respiratory infections (SARIs).
To determine whether preexisting diagnosis of and/or treatment for a neuropsychiatric condition is associated with severe outcomes from COVID-19 infection and other SARIs and whether any observed association is similar between the 2 outcomes.
Prepandemic (2015-2020) and contemporary (2020-2021) longitudinal cohorts were derived from the QResearch database of English primary care records. Adjusted hazard ratios (HRs) with 99% CIs were estimated in April 2022 using flexible parametric survival models clustered by primary care clinic. This study included a population-based sample, including all adults in the database who had been registered with a primary care clinic for at least 1 year. Analysis of routinely collected primary care electronic medical records was performed.
Diagnosis of and/or medication for anxiety, mood, or psychotic disorders and diagnosis of dementia, depression, schizophrenia, or bipolar disorder.
COVID-19-related mortality, or hospital or intensive care unit admission; SARI-related mortality, or hospital or intensive care unit admission.
The prepandemic cohort comprised 11 134 789 adults (223 569 SARI cases [2.0%]) with a median (IQR) age of 42 (29-58) years, of which 5 644 525 (50.7%) were female. The contemporary cohort comprised 8 388 956 adults (58 203 severe COVID-19 cases [0.7%]) with a median (IQR) age of 48 (34-63) years, of which 4 207 192 were male (50.2%). Diagnosis and/or treatment for neuropsychiatric conditions other than dementia was associated with an increased likelihood of a severe outcome from SARI (anxiety diagnosis: HR, 1.16; 99% CI, 1.13-1.18; psychotic disorder diagnosis and treatment: HR, 2.56; 99% CI, 2.40-2.72) and COVID-19 (anxiety diagnosis: HR, 1.16; 99% CI, 1.12-1.20; psychotic disorder treatment: HR, 2.37; 99% CI, 2.20-2.55). The effect estimate for severe outcome with dementia was higher for those with COVID-19 than SARI (HR, 2.85; 99% CI, 2.71-3.00 vs HR, 2.13; 99% CI, 2.07-2.19).
In this longitudinal cohort study, UK patients with preexisting neuropsychiatric conditions and treatments were associated with similarly increased risks of severe outcome from COVID-19 infection and SARIs, except for dementia.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A randomized controlled trial of generic and localized MedlinePlus-based information resources for hard-to-reach urban Hispanic community.
To determine if the Conexion digital localized health information resource about diabetes and depression could increase patient activation among Hispanic low-income adults.
A nonblinded randomized controlled trial was conducted (NCT03984929). Participants at least 18 years old living in Washington Heights/Inwood, New York, were recruited from the community between July 2019 and August 2020 and randomized 1:1 to either the intervention group (localization of MedlinePlus resources customized with community components) or the control group (no localized community components). The primary outcome, patient activation, and secondary outcomes, knowledge, self-efficacy, and behavior change, were collected through surveys at 1-month follow-up.
Of the 134 participants recruited, 50.7% (n = 68) completed the 1-month follow-up. We found no statistically significant differences in the sociodemographic and baseline characteristics between those who missed the 1-month survey and those who completed it. No significant differences were observed in patient activation at 1-month. However, patient activation among all participants (n = 68) significantly increased (P = .048). Statistically significant improvements were also found in self-efficacy (P &lt; .03). In multivariate analysis, birth country outside the United States and higher self-rated attachment to the community emerged as significant predictors of higher patient activation scores.
While the trial did not detect significant differences between groups, all participants demonstrated increased patient activation scores and improved secondary outcomes. While other factors may have contributed to this increase, our study suggests that access to carefully selected high-quality health information materials delivered digitally in the context of a community may result in improvements comparable to localized content in a hard-to-reach urban Hispanic population.
Our study highlights the potential of making carefully selected digital information accessible to hard-to-reach communities.
© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Medical Informatics Association. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Loneliness in Elderly Inpatients.
Loneliness among the elderly is a widespread phenomenon and is connected to various negative health outcomes. Nevertheless, loneliness among elderly inpatients, especially those with a psychiatric diagnosis, has hardly been examined. Our study assessed loneliness in elderly inpatients, identified predictors, and compared levels of loneliness between inpatients on psychiatric and somatic wards.
N = 100 elderly inpatients of a somatic and psychiatric ward were included. Levels of loneliness were assessed, as were potential predictors such as depression, psychological resilience, severity of mental illness, well-being, daily functioning, and psychiatric diagnosis. Analyses of group differences and hierarchical multiple regression analysis were conducted.
37% of all inpatients reported elevated levels of loneliness. Significant predictor variables were self-reported depressive symptoms, well-being, severity of mental illness, being single and living with a caregiver. Hierarchical multiple regression analysis revealed that the full model explained 58% of variance in loneliness. Psychiatric inpatients' loneliness was significantly higher than loneliness in somatic inpatients. When analyzing group differences between inpatients with different main psychiatric diagnoses, highest levels were found in patients with an affective disorder, followed by those treated for organic mental disorder. Since the study took place during the COVID-19 pandemic, potential influence of different measurement points (lockdown vs. no lockdown) were analyzed: Differences in loneliness depending on the phase of the pandemic were non-significant.
Elderly inpatients experience high levels of loneliness, especially those with a mental disorder. Interventions to reduce loneliness in this population should address predictors of loneliness, preferably through multiprofessional interventions.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The antidepressant-like effect elicited by vitamin D
Vitamin D
3
 (cholecalciferol) has been shown to exert antidepressant-like responses, but the role BDNF/TrkB-related synaptic plasticity in this effect remains to be established. Thus, this study investigated the time-course antidepressant-like response of vitamin D
3
 in female and male mice and the possible role of BDNF/TrkB signaling in this response. The repeated (7 and 21 days), but not acute (60 min), administration of vitamin D
3
 (2.5 μg/kg, p.o.) exerted an antidepressant-like effect in female and male mice subjected to the tail suspension test, without altering the basal locomotor activity in the open-field test. Notably, vitamin D
3
 caused a similar time-dependent antidepressant-like effect in male and female mice, suggesting that this behavioral response in the tail suspension test might not be affected by sex differences. Vitamin D
3
 administration for 21 days, but not for 7 days or 1 h, augmented BDNF levels in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex of mice. No effects on phospho-CREB/CREB levels were detected in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex after chronic vitamin D
3
 administration. Additionally, vitamin D
3
 increased TrkB, GluA1, and PSD-95 levels in the prefrontal cortex, but not in the hippocampus. Furthermore, an upregulation of synapsin level was observed in both brain regions after vitamin D
3
 administration. These findings reinforce and extend the notion that vitamin D
3
 is effective to produce antidepressant-like responses in male and female mice and provide novel evidence that this effect could be associated with BDNF/TrkB-related synaptic protein synthesis. Finally, vitamin D
3
 could be a feasible nutritional strategy for the management of depression.
© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Impact of a pre-existing diagnosis of mental illness on stage of breast cancer diagnosis among older women.
Having a mental illness increases risk of mortality for women with breast cancer, partly due to barriers to accessing recommended care (e.g., cancer screening). Early detection is one important factor in breast cancer survival. To further understand this disparity in survival, we examined whether older women with mental illness are more likely to be diagnosed with later-staged breast cancers compared to women without mental illnesses.
We used 2005-2015 SEER-Medicare data to identify AJCC stage I-IV breast cancer patients with and without a history of mental illness prior to cancer diagnosis. We used generalized ordinal regression to examine associations between mental illness diagnoses and stage at diagnosis, controlling for age, race/ethnicity, income, comorbidities, primary care use, rurality, and marital status.
Among 96,034 women with breast cancer, 1.7% have a serious mental illness (SMI), 19.9% depression or anxiety, and 7.0% other mental illness. Those with SMI have 40% higher odds of being diagnosed with AJCC Stages II, III than Stage I; women with depression/anxiety have 25% lower odds of being diagnosed with Stage IV cancer than Stage I; and women with other mental illnesses have similar odds of being diagnosed in later stages.
Women with SMI have higher odds of being diagnosed at later stages, which likely contributes to higher mortality after breast cancer. Surprisingly, women with depression and anxiety have a lower risk of being diagnosed with Stage IV cancer. Earlier breast cancer diagnosis in women with SMI is an important goal for reducing disparities breast cancer survival.
© 2022. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HBK-15, a Multimodal Compound, Showed an Anxiolytic-Like Effect in Rats.
Anxiety is a common mental disorder, and its prevalence has lately increased because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Unfortunately, the available anxiolytics are often ineffective, and most possess addictive potential. Thus, searching for novel compounds is essential. In our previous studies, we selected a multimodal compound, HBK-15, which showed a fast antidepressant-like effect in animal models of depression. HBK-15 demonstrated a high affinity for serotonin 5-HT
1A
 receptors and moderate for 5-HT
7
, dopamine D
2
, and α
1
-adrenoceptors. Based on the receptor profile and preliminary studies, we aimed to investigate the anxiolytic potential of HBK-15 using the conditioned-response rat model of anxiety, i.e., the Vogel drinking test. We performed hot plate and free-drinking tests to exclude false positive results in the Vogel test. Using radioligand binding studies, we also investigated the affinity of the compound for the selected biological targets, which play a role in anxiety. Our experiments revealed that HBK-15 showed an anxiolytic-like effect in rats (5 mg/kg) without influencing the pain threshold or the amount of water consumed in the free-drinking test. Furthermore, the tested compound did not show a significant affinity for the selected biological targets, which suggests that its anxiolytic-like mechanism of action could be connected with the interaction with other receptors. This study indicates that multimodal compounds with a receptor profile similar to HBK-15 could be an attractive therapeutic option for patients with a generalized anxiety disorder. However, more studies are required to determine the exact mechanism of action of HBK-15 and its safety profile.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Health-related quality of life (HRQoL), anxiety, and depression in patients with desmoid type fibromatosis.
Data on the impact of desmoid type fibromatosis (DTF) on emotional distress and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) is sparse.
In this prospective cross-sectional study, patients with DTF and healthy controls were asked to fill the EORTC QLQ-C30, GAD-7, and PHQ-9 questionnaires. The objectives were to determine HRQoL, anxiety, and depression in patients with DTF.
Two hundred four subjects (102 DTF patients and 102 healthy controls) were recruited. The median age of DTF patients at recruitment into the study was 31 years (IQR, 25-37 years). There was a female preponderance with a male:female ratio of 1:1.83. Appendicular skeleton and abdomen sites were most commonly involved in 59% and 22.5% respectively. About half (54%) of patients were currently on sorafenib and 41% were under active surveillance. The mean global health status in DTF patients was 65.58 ± 22.64, significantly lower than healthy controls. Similarly, DTF patients scored low on all functional scales except cognitive functioning. The symptom scale showed a significantly higher symptom burden of fatigue, pain, insomnia, and financial difficulties. Anxiety and depression was observed in 39.22% and 50% of DTF patients respectively. DTF patients had higher rates of mild, moderate, and severe anxiety and depression compared to healthy controls.
DTF patients have significant symptom burden, poor functioning, and heightened anxiety and depression as compared to healthy controls. HRQoL, anxiety, and depression should be routinely used to assess symptom burden and treatment efficacy in DTF patients.
© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Associations between breastfeeding intention, breastfeeding practices and post-natal depression during the COVID-19 pandemic: A multi-country cross-sectional study.
Associations between breastfeeding intention, duration and post-natal depression (PND) have been shown in pre-COVID-19 studies. However, studies during COVID-19 have not examined the associations between breastfeeding intention, breastfeeding practices, and PND in an international sample of post-natal women, taking into consideration COVID-19 related factors. This is the first study to address this gap as both PND and breastfeeding may be affected by COVID-19, and have important long-term effects on women's and infant's health. A cross-sectional internet-based survey was conducted with 3253 post-natal women from five countries: Brazil, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, and the United Kingdom from July to November 2021. The results showed that women who intended to breastfeed during pregnancy had lower odds of having PND than women who did not intend to. Women who had no breastfeeding intention but actually breastfed had greater odds (AOR 1.75) of having PND than women who intended to breastfeed and actually breastfed. While there was no statistical significance in expressed breast milk feeding in multivariable logistic regression models, women who had shorter duration of breastfeeding directly on breast than they planned had greater odds (AOR 1.58) of having PND than those who breastfed longer than they planned even after adjusting for covariates including COVID-19-related variables. These findings suggested the importance of working with women on their breastfeeding intention. Tailored support is required to ensure women's breastfeeding needs are met and at the same time care for maternal mental health during and beyond the pandemic.
© 2022 The Authors. Maternal & Child Nutrition published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Comparing the Movement Assessment Battery for Children with the Bruininks-Oseretsky Test of Motor Proficiency in adolescents with and without schizophrenia.
As motor impairments have implications for health and functioning, they need to be addressed early, not only in childhood but also in adolescence, the period in which mental disorders as schizophrenia, typically develops. Further, the possible prognostic value of motor impairments in schizophrenia highlights the importance. The Bruininks-Oseretsky Test of Motor Proficiency (BOT-2) and the Movement Assessment Battery for Children (MABC-2) assess adolescent motor performance. However, MABC-2 is not valid past age 16 and has no sex-norms. Further, while the concurrent validity between the tests and their ability to distinguish between clinical and non-clinical groups has been established in children, however they have not been established in adolescence.
To compare the ability of MABC-2 and BOT-2 to distinguish between adolescents with and without schizophrenia, to examine the concurrent validity between tests, to examine the agreement between tests in classifying adolescents "at risk" or scoring "below average" and to examine the influence of age and sex on MABC-2.
Motor performance assessed by BOT-2 and MABC-2 was compared in 25 adolescents with schizophrenia (14-18) and age- and sex-matched controls using t-test, Cohen's D and false discovery rate's q-value. The associations between tests were assessed using Pearson's correlation and Lin's concordance correlation coefficient. The Kappa coefficient was used to assess the agreement between tests in classifying "risk/below average" and linear regression was adopted to assess the influence of age/sex on MABC-2.
MABC-2 and BOT-2 significantly distinguished adolescents with schizophrenia from controls with large effect size. A strong association (p > 0.001) was found between the tests. The tests revealed moderate agreement in identifying "risk" or scoring "below average". Only sex influenced MABC-2 scores.
MABC-2 and BOT-2 are both useful for assessing motor performance and distinguishing between adolescents with and without schizophrenia, although BOT-2 provides a more detailed picture of the challenges in adolescent with schizophrenia.
© 2022 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Latent profile analysis of cognitive function and depressive symptoms in Chinese elderly: results from the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study.
Geriatric cognitive impairment often occurs in conjunction with depressive symptoms. This study focuses on categorising the Chinese elderly with such co-occurring symptoms into homogeneous groups using latent profile analysis (LPA), a person-centred statistical approach.
Information on cognitive function and depressive states of the elderly was extracted from the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study. The underlying characteristics were identified by LPA, and based on those findings, differences in demographic characteristics of different subgroups were explored by chi-squared test and analysis of variance.
A total of 6710 Chinese elderly who met the inclusion criteria were selected from the dataset. Four subgroups were identified among this sample by LPA, based on cognitive function associated with depressive symptoms, and named in this study as follows: mild cognitive impairment (n = 3747, 55.84%), moderate cognitive impairment (n = 1306, 19.46%), mild cognitive impairment combined with depressive symptoms (n = 1114, 16.6%), and moderate cognitive impairment combined with depression (n = 543, 8.09%). Age, gender, marital status, and educational level were all significantly different across subgroups (P < 0.001); religious belief and pension mode, however, were not (P > 0.05).
In the present study, four subgroups of cognitive function combined with depressive symptoms were found in Chinese elderly individuals, and differences in demographic factors were noted between the subgroups. In clinical practise, these findings could help clinical workers identify patients accurately and consider the demographic features of each subgroup when designing medical treatment, care, and rehabilitation programmes for those with cognitive impairment and concomitant depressive symptoms.
© 2022 Japanese Psychogeriatric Society.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Primary care psychology in Belgium: clinical characteristics and service use].
Against the treatment gap and the long delays in seeking treatment for mental health problems, primary care psychology (PCP) was added to reimbursed outpatient mental health services in the Belgian healthcare system.
To describe the characteristics of patients treated within the measure of reimbursement of PCP.
A total of 350 patients participated in an online survey at the start of their PCP treatment within one of the 31 mental healthcare networks in Belgium. Besides sociodemographic characteristics, they were questioned about their mental disorders, suicidality, service use, and delays in seeking treatment.
Almost 90% of all patients screened positive for a lifetime and 12-month DSM-5 mental disorder, mostly anxiety and depressive disorders. Over 1/3 were experiencing suicidal thoughts and/or behaviors (STB) in the last 12 months. For 49.1% of patients, PCP was the first treatment ever. The median delay in seeking treatment was 6 years.
PCP in Belgium serves mostly a clinical population with high proportions of lifetime and 12-month mental disorders and STB, and many of them have been in mental health treatment before. These findings raise the question whether PCP fits the needs for the patients that are treated.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Georges Perec's 
Georges Perec's memoir of his analysis, "The Scene of a Stratagem" (1977), is part of a literary oeuvre characterized by innovative forms addressing the paradoxical task of telling a story that cannot be told. His life history was constructed from memory traces, veiled behind the untimely death of his parents in World War II. The memoir tells the story of his analysis in adulthood with Jean-Bertrand Pontalis, at a time when Perec was struggling with depression and writer's block. Beneath doubts and the tedious analytic routine, Perec presents analysis as a space in which memory traces can be given new life. The historical past takes place in a space Walter Benjamin calls time-space (
Zeit-raum
), or time-dream (
Zeit-traum
). This space is created in a flash of 
co-incidence
 between dreaming and waking. History, then, is created in a space where archived memory traces are transformed into present experience. Perec creates a kind of Benjaminian dream-space of the past to deal with the fragmentation of memory that follows traumatic loss. The significance of this distinct space is discussed in relation to the challenge of representing traumatic experiences while remaining faithful to the dreamlike and fragmented nature of the space.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Splitting the Unity of Bodily Self: Toward a Comprehensive Review of Phenomenology and Psychopathology of Heautoscopy.
Heautoscopy refers to a pathological experience of visual reduplication of one's body with an ambiguous sense of self-location and a disturbing sensation of owning the illusory body. It has been recognized to occur in the course of strikingly diverse psychiatric and neurological disorders, such as schizophrenia, space-occupying lesions, frequently of the temporal or parietal lobes, migraine, epilepsy, and depression. The literature on the subject suffers from numerous conceptual inconsistencies, scarcity of clinical data, and a lack of theoretical integratory framework that could explain the uniqueness of these symptoms.
In the study, we aimed to review all case reports on heautoscopy we could cull from the literature with an attempt to extract common factors and to foster a theoretical synthesis.
All medical and psychological databases were rigorously searched, along with reference lists of the preselected articles. First-person reports were classified according to aspects of bodily self-consciousness primarily affected: body ownership, self-location, sense of agency and consequently, collated with their etiological backgrounds.
Out of over 140 case studies, a total of only 9 patients with heautoscopy were selected as satisfying functional criteria, carefully distinguishing heautoscopy from other typically conflated full-body anomalies: autoscopy, out-of-body experience, or feeling of presence. Numerous cases turned out to be mislabeling autoscopy or out-of-body experience as heautoscopy. In addition, several problems with existing neuroimaging experiments were identified.
Phenomenological analysis revealed that from the patients' perspective, heautoscopy resembles a somatesthetic-proprioceptive illusion, rather than a cognitive delusion, and occurs much less frequently than reported. A most peculiar symptom, described by some as a sense of "bilocation," appears to stem from dynamic shifts in self-location and expanded body ownership, rather than an expanded first-person perspective. Although extremely rare in its pure form, heautoscopy gives a unique opportunity to explore the brain limits to the plasticity of bodily boundaries and the origin of the first-person spatial perspective.
© 2022 S. Karger AG, Basel.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Rapid emergence of appetite and hunger resulting in weight gain and improvement of eating disorder symptomatology during and after short-term off-label metreleptin treatment of a patient with anorexia nervosa.
Off-label treatment of a 15-year-old female patient with anorexia nervosa with human recombinant leptin (metreleptin) for nine days was associated with self-reported increments of appetite and hunger resulting in rapid weight gain, substantial improvement of eating disorder cognitions and of depression. The results further substantiate the effects of metreleptin on both AN and depression. We contrast these results with the widespread view that leptin is an anorexigenic hormone. Randomized controlled trials are warranted to confirm the described effects.
The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The associations between depressive symptoms, functional impairment, and quality of life, in patients with major depression: undirected and Bayesian network analyses.
Depressive symptoms, functional impairment, and decreased quality of life (QOL) are three important domains of major depressive disorder (MDD). However, the possible causal relationship between these factors has yet to be elucidated. Moreover, it is not known whether certain symptoms of MDD are more impairing than others. The network approach is a promising solution to these shortfalls.
The baseline data of a multicenter prospective project conducted in 11 governances of China were analyzed. In total, 1385 patients with MDD were included. Depressive symptoms, functioning disability, and QOL were evaluated by the 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD-17), the Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS), and the Quality of Life Enjoyment and Satisfaction Questionnaire-Short Form (Q-LES-Q-SF). The network was estimated through the graphical Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) technique in combination with the directed acyclic graph.
Three centrality metrics of the graphical LASSO showed that social life dysfunction, QOL, and late insomnia exhibited the highest strength centrality. The network accuracy and stability were estimated to be robust and stable. The Bayesian network indicated that some depressive symptoms were directly associated with QOL, while other depressive symptoms showed an indirect association with QOL mediated by impaired function. Depressed mood was positioned at the highest level in the model and predicted the activation of functional impairment and anxiety.
Functional disability mediated the relationship between depressive symptoms and QOL. Family functionality and suicidal symptoms were directly related to QOL. Depressed mood played the predominant role in activating both anxiety symptom and functional impairment.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Factors associated with poor academic performance among undergraduate dental students: A cross-sectional study.
To evaluate the factors associated with poor academic performance among undergraduate dental students enrolled at a public university in Brazil.
A semi-structured questionnaire addressing the exploratory variables of interest (sociodemographic and economic characteristics, use of medications and drugs, dentistry as the first choice of undergraduate course, and the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index) was hosted on Google Forms and shared with all dental students at the Federal University of Pelotas. Academic performance was evaluated based on institutional records, access to which the participants had previously authorized; students with good (average ≥7.0 points) or poor academic performance (average <7.0 points) were considered. Adjusted logistic regressions were performed to verify the association between academic performance and the exploratory variables (p < 0.05).
In total, 244 students were included, of whom 18.8% had poor academic performance. Increased age (OR: 1.34; 95%CI: 1.18-1.52), non-white skin color (OR: 1.34; 95%CI: 1.18-1.52), the use of medications for anxiety and depression (OR: 1.34; 95%CI: 1.18-1.52), and poor sleep quality (OR: 1.34; 95%CI: 1.18-1.52) were factors associated with poor academic performance.
A low prevalence of poor academic performance was observed. Non-white skin color, increased age, use of anxiolytics or antidepressants, and poor or disturbed sleep may reduce dental students' academic performance.
© 2022 American Dental Education Association.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gut microbiota mediated inflammation, neuroendocrine and neurotrophic functions involved in the antidepressant-like effects of diosgenin in chronic restraint stress.
Diosgenin is a well-known steroid saponin possessing neuroprotective activities. However, it is unknown whether diosgenin could alleviate depression-like symptoms.
The antidepressant-like effect of diosgenin was investigated in mice induced by chronic restraint stress. The effects of diosgenin on behaviors, inflammation, neuroendocrine, neurotrophic function, and gut microbiota were evaluated.
The results showed that diosgenin alleviated the depressive-like behaviors in mice. In addition, diosgenin was found to reduce serum concentrations of proinflammatory cytokines and the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Besides, diosgenin could activate hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)/TrkB/ERK/CREB signaling pathway and improve the expression of postsynaptic protein PSD95. Meanwhile, the neurogenesis which was inhibited by chronic restraint stress, was totally reversed by diosgenin. Moreover, diosgenin increased the abundance of phylum Firmicutes and the genus Lactobacillus in stressed mice. The results further showed that diosgenin caused a strong correlation between gut microbiota composition and inflammation, the HPA axis activity, or hippocampus neurotrophic function.
Only male mice were used for evaluation in the present study, which limits the understanding of effects of diosgenin on the both sexes. In addition, the results only indicate microbiota at the phylum or genus mediate the regulation of neuroinflammation, neuroendocrine, and neurotrophic function, but does not elucidate how microbiota modulate the systems via their primary or secondary metabolites.
The present study shows that diosgenin exerts the antidepressant activity, which is associated with the enhancement of neurotrophic function and the inhibition of inflammatory and neuroendocrine activities via the regulation of gut microbiota.
Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The mental health of university students in South Africa: Results of the national student survey.
We estimate 30-day prevalence of 11 common mental disorders among a representative sample of university students in South Africa and explore disparities in student mental health across historically segregated institutions and marginalised groups.
Cross-sectional data collected in self-report surveys of students (n = 28,268) from 17 universities were weighted to adjust for differences in survey responses. Poisson regression was used to estimate risk ratios (RRs).
Prevalence estimates were highest (21.0-24.5 %) for two anxiety disorders (social anxiety disorder, PTSD) and two disruptive behavior disorders (eating disorder, ADHD). Prevalence estimates were higher for any anxiety disorder (37.1 %) and any disruptive behavior disorder (38.7 %) than for any mood disorder (16.3 %) or any substance use disorder (6.6 %). Prevalence estimates varied significantly by historical segregation status of institutions (F
3
 = 221.6, p < .001), with prevalence consistently highest in Historically White Institutions (HWIs). Across all institutions, risk of any disorder was lower among oldest than younger students (RR = 0.7, 95%CI = 0.7-0.8), and elevated among gender non-conforming (RR = 1.3, 95%CI = 1.1-1.4), female (RR = 1.2, 95%CI = 1.1-1.2), and sexual minority (RR = 1.2, 95%CI = 1.2-1.3) students. Black students attending HWIs had elevated risk of any disorder relative to White students.
Reliance on self-report measures together with relatively low and variable response rates across institutions limit generalizability of results.
Modest risks associated with sociodemographic factors suggest a need to focus on mental health of female, gender nonconforming and sexual minority students at all universities along with Black students attending HWIs.
Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The mediating effect of depression on new-onset stroke in diabetic population: Evidence from the China health and retirement longitudinal study.
Diabetes has a high incidence in China, which may cause stroke and depression. However, the relationship between diabetes and the incidence of new-onset stroke and depression has not been fully studied.
The data from the China Longitudinal Study on Health and Retirement (CHARLS) from 2013 to 2018 were used. A total of 8530 respondents aged ≥45 years old were included in the follow-up study. Logistic regression model, Cox regression, and Mediation analyses were used to explore the association between diabetes, depression, and new-onset stroke.
The depression score of patients with diabetes history was higher (HR,95%CI = 1.02, 1.01-1.04) and were more likely to experience new-onset stroke events (HR, 95%CI = 1.046, 1.02-1.07). With a history of hypertension (HR,95%CI = 1.747, 1.381-2.208), older (HR,95%CI = 1.033, 1.020-1.046) with high BMI (HR,95%CI = 1.056, 1.027-1.086) have a high risk of new-onset stroke. In the combined subgroup analysis, the incidence of new-onset stroke in the subgroup with diabetes depression was higher than in others. The mediating effect of depression on new-onset stroke events in diabetic patients is more pronounced in the medium to long term (>3 years) after adjusting covariates.
We defined new-onset stroke by patient self-report, there might be some memory bias. In addition, new-onset stroke was not classified in the CHARLS questionnaire, which would hinder us to evaluate the mediating effect of depression on different types of new-onset stroke.
Our results showed that depression has a partial mediating effect between diabetes and new-onset stroke in the middle-aged and elderly population in China.
Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Behavioural disruption in diabetic mice: Neurobiological correlates and influences of dietary α-linolenic acid.
Evolving type 2 diabetes (T2D) may influence locomotion and affective state, promoting metabolic dysfunction. We examined behaviour and neurobiology in a model of T2D, testing for benefits with dietary n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA).
Male C57Bl/6 mice received vehicle or 75 mg/kg streptozotocin (STZ) and 21 wks of control or Western diets (43 % fat, 40 % carbohydrate, 17 % protein). Sub-sets received dietary α-linolenic acid (ALA; 10 % of fat intake) for 6 wks. Behaviour was examined via open field and sucrose preference tests, and hippocampal and frontal cortex (FC) leptin and dopamine levels and inflammatory signalling assessed.
T2D mice exhibited weight gain (+15 %), hyperglycemia (+35 %), hyperinsulinemia (+60 %) and insulin-resistance (+80 % higher HOMA-IR), together with anxiety-like behaviour (without anhedonia) that appeared independent of body weight and glycemic status. Cortical leptin declined whereas receptor mRNA increased. Supplementation with ALA did not influence metabolic state, while enhancing locomotion and reducing anxiety-like behaviours in healthy but not T2D mice. Hippocampal dopamine was selectively increased by ALA in T2D mice, with a trend to reduced circulating leptin in both groups. Across all groups, anxiety-like behaviour was associated with declining cortical and hippocampal leptin levels and increasing receptor mRNA, while declining dopamine levels were accompanied by decreased dopamine/serotonin receptor transcripts.
Chronic T2D induced anxiogenesis in mice appears to be independent of metabolic homeostasis but linked to central leptin-resistance, together with disturbed dopamine and serotonin signalling. Despite anxiolytic effects of ALA in healthy mice, no metabolic or behavioural benefits were evident in T2D.
Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ventral tegmental area integrity measured with high-resolution 7-Tesla MRI relates to motivation across depression and anxiety diagnoses.
The ventral tegmental area (VTA) is one of the major sources of dopamine in the brain and has been associated with reward prediction, error-based reward learning, volitional drive and anhedonia. However, precise anatomical investigations of the VTA have been prevented by the use of standard-resolution MRI, reliance on subjective manual tracings, and lack of quantitative measures of dopamine-related signal. Here, we combine ultra-high field 400 µm
3
 quantitative MRI with dopamine-related signal mapping, and a mixture of machine learning and supervised computational techniques to delineate the VTA in a transdiagnostic sample of subjects with and without depression and anxiety disorders. Subjects also underwent cognitive testing to measure intrinsic and extrinsic motivational tone. Fifty-one subjects were scanned in total, including healthy control (HC) and mood/anxiety (MA) disorder subjects. MA subjects had significantly larger VTA volumes compared to HC but significantly lower signal intensity within VTA compared to HC, indicating reduced structural integrity of the dopaminergic VTA. Interestingly, while VTA integrity did not significantly correlate with self-reported depression or anxiety symptoms, it was correlated with an objective cognitive measure of extrinsic motivation, whereby lower VTA integrity was associated with lower motivation. This is the first study to demonstrate a computational pipeline for detecting and delineating the VTA in human subjects with 400 μm
3
 resolution. We highlight the use of objective transdiagnostic measures of cognitive function that link neural integrity to behavior across clinical and non-clinical groups.
Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Based on the current results, they showed that 
Schisandra chinensis
 lignans (SCL) ameliorated depressive-like behaviors in chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) mice, alleviated neuroinflammation, and improved neuronal injury. This study aimed to explore whether SCL exerted antidepressant effects through inhibiting neuroinflammation, in turn improving neuronal injury. 
In vitro
 studies revealed that SCL blocked lipopolysaccharide-increased BV2 microglial M1 but promoted the M2 phenotype. The BV2-N2a interaction model suggested that increasing the M2 phenotype of BV2 played neuroprotective effects. The current studies demonstrated that SCL up-regulated the expression of CUMS- and LPS-decreased cannabinoid receptor type-2 (CB2R) mRNA. 
In vitro
 studies showed that the transfection of BV2 with siCrn2 blocked the SCL-increased M2 phenotype via the inactivating signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT6) pathway, further decreasing the viability of N2a cells. Finally, the possible pharmacodynamic compounds, γ-schisandrin and schisantherin A, were indicated by AutoDuck analysis. Overall, our study showed that SCL promoted microglia polarization toward the M2 phenotype, in turn exerting neuroprotective effects by activating CB2R-STAT6 signaling further to play antidepressant roles.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A Quality Improvement Network for Interdisciplinary Training in Developmental Disabilities.
Children with developmental disabilities (DD), such as autism spectrum disorder (ASD), have complex health and developmental needs that require multiple service systems and interactions with various professionals across disciplines. The growing number of children and youth identified with ASD or DD, including anxiety and depression, has increased demand for services and need for highly qualified pediatric providers. Federally funded Leadership Education in Neurodevelopmental and related Disabilities (LEND) programs across the United States address today's health care shortages by providing comprehensive, interdisciplinary training to providers from multiple pediatric disciplines who screen, diagnose, and treat those with ASD and DD. Each LEND program develops training methods independently, including quality improvement efforts. In 2014, LEND programs began designing and validating common measures to evaluate LEND training. The LEND Program Quality Improvement (LPQI) Network was established in 2016. Participating LEND programs in the LPQI Network administer validated trainee self-report and faculty-observation measures that address skills in key competency domains of Interdisciplinary or Interprofessional Team Building, Family-Professional Partnerships, and Policy. This study reports data from faculty and trainees from 22 LEND programs that participated in the LPQI Network across the 5-year data collection period. The main outcome of this study was the change in trainee knowledge, skills, and attitudes scores in key competency domains across programs. Overall, trainees made significant knowledge, skills, and attitude gains based on both self-report and faculty observation scores for all 3 competency domains. Data demonstrate the value of LEND programs and feasibility of a national quality improvement approach to evaluate interdisciplinary training and systems-level improvement.
Copyright © 2022 by the American Academy of Pediatrics.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A Pragmatic Cluster-Randomized Trial of Provider Education and Community Health Worker Support for Tobacco Cessation.
Individuals with serious mental illness have a high prevalence of tobacco use disorder and related early mortality but underutilize smoking cessation medication. The authors determined whether clinician-delivered education to primary care providers regarding safety, efficacy, and importance of cessation medication (provider education [PE]) alone or combined with community health worker (CHW) support would increase tobacco abstinence in this population, compared with usual care.
All adult current tobacco smokers receiving psychiatric rehabilitation for serious mental illness through two community agencies in Greater Boston were eligible, regardless of readiness to quit smoking. Primary care clinics were cluster randomized to PE or usual care, with a nested, participant-level randomization to CHW or no CHW in PE-assigned clinics. The primary outcome was blindly assessed, biochemically verified tobacco abstinence at year 2.
Overall, 1,010 eligible participants were enrolled. PE was delivered to providers in 53 of 55 assigned clinics; 220 of 336 CHW-assigned participants consented to CHW support. Year 2 abstinence rates were significantly higher among participants assigned to PE+CHW versus usual care (12% vs. 5%; adjusted odds ratio [AOR]=2.40, 95% confidence interval [CI]=1.20-4.79) or PE alone (12% vs. 7%; AOR=1.84, 95% CI=1.04-3.24). No effect of PE alone on abstinence was detected. Compared with participants assigned to usual care, those assigned to PE+CHW had greater odds of varenicline use (OR=2.77, 95% CI=1.61-4.75), which was associated with higher year 2 abstinence (OR=1.97, 95% CI=1.16-3.33).
Combined PE and CHW tobacco cessation support increased tobacco abstinence rates among adults with serious mental illness.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interpersonal attribution bias and social evaluation in adolescent eating disorders.
Improved understanding of adolescent eating disorders (EDs), including identification and refinement of treatment and recovery targets, may help improve clinical outcomes. Interpersonal function is a proposed risk and maintenance factor that may be particularly relevant given the significance of adolescence for both psychosocial development and ED onset. This study examined self-referential thinking in adolescents with EDs compared to healthy adolescents.
Twenty-nine adolescents with EDs and 31 healthy controls completed a self-report measure of interpersonal attributions as well as a verbal appraisal task that required conducting direct and indirect evaluations about oneself and direct evaluations about others.
The ED group had a more negative self-attribution bias than the control group (p = 0.006) even when controlling for depression severity. Additionally, the ED group exhibited less positive direct self (p < 0.001), direct social (p = 0.015), and social reflected self-appraisals (p = 0.011) than the healthy cohort. After including depression as a covariate in the verbal appraisal model, the model was no longer significant, suggesting group differences related to social appraisals may be mediated by depression.
Adolescents with EDs have more negative interpersonal beliefs than comparison adolescents. Future studies are needed to determine how the constructs identified here relate to clinical course.
© 2022 Eating Disorders Association and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Neural response to social but not monetary reward predicts increases in depressive symptoms during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The prevalence of depressive symptoms has increased during the COVID-19 pandemic, especially among those with greater pandemic-related stress exposure; however, not all individuals exposed to pandemic stress will develop depression. Determining which individuals are vulnerable to depressive symptoms as a result of this stress could lead to an improved understanding of the etiology of depression. This study sought to determine whether neural sensitivity to monetary and/or social reward prospectively predicts depressive symptoms during periods of high stress. 121 participants attended pre-pandemic laboratory visits where they completed monetary and social reward tasks while electroencephalogram was recorded. Subsequently, from March to August 2020, we sent eight questionnaires probing depressive symptoms and exposure to pandemic-related stressors. Using repeated-measures multilevel models, we evaluated whether neural response to social or monetary reward predicted increases in depressive symptoms across the early course of the pandemic. Furthermore, we examined whether neural response to social or monetary reward moderated the association between pandemic-related episodic stressors and depressive symptoms. Pandemic-related stress exposure was strongly associated with depressive symptoms. Additionally, we found that blunted neural response to social but not monetary reward predicted increased depressive symptoms during the pandemic. However, neither neural response to social nor monetary reward moderated the association between episodic stress exposure and depressive symptoms. Our findings indicate that neural response to social reward may be a useful predictor of depressive symptomatology under times of chronic stress, particularly stress with a social dimension.
© 2022 Society for Psychophysiological Research.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Stressors and mental health impacts of COVID-19 in dental students: A scoping review.
The COVID-19 pandemic has led to mental health hazards to healthcare providers in general and to undergraduate dental students. The present study undertakes a scoping review to identify and discuss the mental health issues and stressors impacting dental students globally during the COVID-19 pandemic.
A systematic search following the Joanna Briggs Institute's framework for scoping reviews was conducted on Embase, MEDLINE by Ovid, Web of Science, PsycInfo, CINAHL, and ERIC to identify peer reviewed publications published globally since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020 until June 22, 2021. Manual search was also performed on Google scholar. Eligible studies were selected based on the predetermined set of criteria and focused specifically on mental health issues experienced by undergraduate dental students in the context of COVID-19.
Fifty-five publications were retained. Fifty-one reported stress, anxiety, or depression experienced by undergraduate dental students during the pandemic. Twenty-five studies employed validated psychometric instruments to explore mental health status among the same students. A total of 28 publications reported that the predominant concern for students was fear of infection, especially during patient interaction. Adapting to virtual learning, clinical skill deficit due to lack of/limited practical training and social isolation were other majorly reported stressors.
Many mental health issues and stressors related to the COVID-19 pandemic have been identified. Mitigation of COVID-19-related stressors on dental students' mental health should be a priority across all dental academic institutions. Continued efforts should be made to create a supportive learning environment.
© 2022 American Dental Education Association.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Behavioral symptoms, depression symptoms, and medication use in Michigan nursing home residents with dementia during COVID-19.
The COVID-19 pandemic significantly disrupted nursing home (NH) care, including visitation restrictions, reduced staffing levels, and changes in routine care. These challenges may have led to increased behavioral symptoms, depression symptoms, and central nervous system (CNS)-active medication use among long-stay NH residents with dementia.
We conducted a retrospective, cross-sectional study including Michigan long-stay (≥100 days) NH residents aged ≥65 with dementia based on Minimum Data Set (MDS) assessments from January 1, 2018 to June 30, 2021. Residents with schizophrenia, Tourette syndrome, or Huntington's disease were excluded. Outcomes were the monthly prevalence of behavioral symptoms (i.e., Agitated Reactive Behavior Scale ≥ 1), depression symptoms (i.e., Patient Health Questionnaire [PHQ]-9 ≥ 10, reflecting at least moderate depression), and CNS-active medication use (e.g., antipsychotics). Demographic, clinical, and facility characteristics were included. Using an interrupted time series design, we compared outcomes over two periods: Period 1: January 1, 2018-February 28, 2020 (pre-COVID-19) and Period 2: March 1, 2020-June 30, 2021 (during COVID-19).
We included 37,427 Michigan long-stay NH residents with dementia. The majority were female, 80 years or older, White, and resided in a for-profit NH facility. The percent of NH residents with moderate depression symptoms increased during COVID-19 compared to pre-COVID-19 (4.0% vs 2.9%, slope change [SC] = 0.03, p < 0.05). Antidepressant, antianxiety, antipsychotic and opioid use increased during COVID-19 compared to pre-COVID-19 (SC = 0.41, p < 0.001, SC = 0.17, p < 0.001, SC = 0.07, p < 0.05, and SC = 0.24, p < 0.001, respectively). No significant changes in hypnotic use or behavioral symptoms were observed.
Michigan long-stay NH residents with dementia had a higher prevalence of depression symptoms and CNS active-medication use during the COVID-19 pandemic than before. During periods of increased isolation, facility-level policies to regularly assess depression symptoms and appropriate CNS-active medication use are warranted.
© 2022 The Authors. Journal of the American Geriatrics Society published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The American Geriatrics Society.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Population-attributable risk of psychiatric disorders for suicide among adolescents and young adults in Taiwan.
Youth suicide rates have increased markedly in some countries. This study aimed to estimate the population-attributable risk of psychiatric disorders associated with suicide among Taiwanese youth aged 10-24 years.
Data were obtained from the National Death Registry and National Health Insurance (NHI) claims database between 2007 and 2019. Youth who died by suicide were included, and comparisons, 1:10 matched by age and sex, were randomly selected from the Registry for NHI beneficiaries. We used multivariable logistic regression to estimate suicide odds ratios for psychiatric disorders. The population-attributable fractions (PAF) were calculated for each psychiatric disorder.
A total of 2345 youth suicide and 23 450 comparisons were included. Overall, 44.8% of suicides had a psychiatric disorder, while only 7.9% of the comparisons had a psychiatric disorder. The combined PAF for all psychiatric disorders was 55.9%. The top three psychiatric conditions of the largest PAFs were major depressive disorder, dysthymia, and sleep disorder. In the analysis stratified by sex, the combined PAF was 45.5% for males and 69.2% for females. The PAF among young adults aged 20-24 years (57.0%) was higher than among adolescents aged 10-19 years (48.0%).
Our findings of high PAF from major depressive disorder, dysthymia, and sleep disorder to youth suicides suggest that youth suicide prevention that focuses on detecting and treating mental illness may usefully target these disorders.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Can Fluoxetine Combined with Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Reduce the Suicide and Non-Suicidal Self-Injury Incidence and Recurrence Rate in Depressed Adolescents Compared with Fluoxetine Alone? A Meta-Analysis.
The efficacy of medication and psychotherapy for adolescent depression is controversial, so we conducted a meta-analysis to evaluate the efficacy of combination therapy.
We followed the PRISMA checklist in completing the meta-analysis. Relevant literature was searched in PubMed, Web of Science and Embase, Chinese databases CNKI and WanFang Data. We included the literature on the comparison of the fluoxetine plus psychotherapy or cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) and each treatment alone for adolescent depression published in 1980-2021. All statistical analyses were performed using Stata software.
After careful review, a total of 489 relevant articles were retrieved, and 13 studies were finally included. In comparison with the control group (fluoxetine alone), fluoxetine plus CBT achieved higher response rate (RR=1.12, 95% CI: 1.04, 1.21), lower incidence of adverse Reactions (RR=0.62,95% CI:0.40,0.96), lower proportion of suicide or self-injury (RR=0.94,95% CI:0.74,1.20), and lower one-year recurrence rate (RR=0.27, 95% CI: 0.16, 0.45). Before treatment, there were no significant differences in Hamilton Depression Scale score (HAMD), Children's Depression Rating Scale Revised (CDRS-R) score, and Clinical Global Impression (CGI) Severity score. After treatment, HAMD score (SMD=-1.01, 95% CI:-1.39,-0.63), CDRS-R score (SMD= -0.10,95% CI:-0.26,-0.07), and CGI score (SMD = -0.22, 95% CI: -0.54, -0.10) were significantly lower in the combined treatment group than in the control group.
Adolescents simultaneously treated with fluoxetine and CBT had significantly reduced incidence of depressive symptoms, suicide or NSSI, adverse reactions, and one-year recurrence of symptoms, than adolescents treated with fluoxetine alone. This indicates fluoxetine plus CBT may be superior to fluoxetine alone for the clinical treatment of adolescent depression.
© 2022 Liu et al.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Preventing burnout and substance use disorder among healthcare professionals through breathing exercises, emotion identification, and writing activities.
The introduction of the COVID-19 pandemic has placed additional strain on healthcare workers, inducing immense levels of stress and workplace burnout. Health care professionals are acutely susceptible to COVID-19 exposure, ultimately leading to elevated levels of anxiety and mental illness. For example, dental professionals are at high risk due to their close work with the oral cavity. To provide temporary relief to the stress, some may turn toward substance use, especially if that individual has some form of mental illness. To curb the onset of burnout and its byproduct of substance use disorder, it is crucial to be equipped with proper tools and healthy habits that can counteract extreme levels of stress. In this article, a time-effective, 3-step method is introduced, with each activity proven to lessen burnout symptoms. When followed, an individual can navigate burnout's symptoms through a healthy mind and body approach. Additionally, resources to find resilience-building and mentorship programs are provided. Common substance use support groups and information regarding group meetings and contact information are listed.
© 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Menstrual Changes after COVID-19 Infection and COVID-19 Vaccination.
Several factors such as stress, depression, infection, and vaccination influenced the menstrual cycle in women during the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. We investigated whether there were changes in the menstrual cycle in women after COVID-19 vaccination or infection and, if so, the nature of the change.
This study was designed as a descriptive, cross-sectional study. A face-to-face survey was conducted among menstruating women aged 18-50 years from May 31 to July 31, 2022. Women were inquired about their first three menstrual cycles that occurred after COVID-19 infection or vaccination.
Of 241 women with COVID-19 infection, 86 (35.7%) mentioned that they experienced various changes in their menstrual patterns in the first three cycles after infection. Of 537 participants who received various COVID-19 vaccines, 82 (15.1%) stated that they experienced changes in their menstrual patterns after vaccination. The incidence of postvaccination menstrual change was higher in women who received Pfizer-BioNTech and Sinovac (CoronaVac) vaccines. Only 10.9% of women who reported a change in their menstrual pattern after vaccination or infection consulted a physician.
COVID-19 infection and vaccination can affect the menstrual cycle in women. It is important to be aware of the menstrual changes after COVID-19 infection and vaccination and to warn and inform women about this issue.
Copyright © 2022 Işılay Taşkaldıran et al.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alteration in NMDAR subunits in different brain regions of chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) rat model.
N
-Methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) signaling pathway has been implicated in the pathogenesis and treatment of depression. However, the role of NMDAR subunits in depression is still unclear. In this study, alteration in all seven NMDAR subunits in several brain areas of rats exposed to chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS), an animal model of depression, was detected. Our findings demonstrated that: (1) CUMS could induce a reduction in sucrose preference, an indicator of typical depression-like behaviors; (2) CUMS significantly reduced the NMDAR subunits of GluN2B and GluN3 in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), but not altered all seven NMDAR subunits in hippocampus and corpus callosum of rats; (3) subunit composition of NMDARs in corpus callosum was different from that in mPFC, PFC and hippocampus; and (4) the mRNA expressions of GluN2B, GluN3A and GluN3B in mPFC as well as mRNA expression of GluN2C in corpus callosum were correlated to sucrose preference in rats. These findings suggested that GluN2B and GluN3 in mPFC may contribute to the pathophysiology of depression.
© 2022 Jing Chen et al., published by De Gruyter.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Comparison of Rehabilitative Interventions That Ameliorate Post-stroke Working Memory Deficit: A Systematic Review.
Stroke is one of the most common causes of disability in the world. It has sensory, motor, and cognitive symptoms. Many cognitive domains might get involved in a stroke. This systematic review focuses on working memory domain deficits after stroke and their various rehabilitation methods. This review is based on Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses(PRISMA) guidelines. For this review, we have searched PubMed, Google Scholar, and Science Direct databases and screened thoroughly with the inclusion criteria of free full-text English papers in the last 10 years that have exclusively studied humans. The articles included in the search are randomized control trials (RCTs), observational studies, meta-analysis studies, systematic reviews, and traditional reviews. Consequent quality assessment was done using the most commonly used tools for each type of study and eight papers were selected. From these papers, full-text articles were studied, analyzed, and tabulated. We found five different rehabilitation methods: transcranial direct-current stimulation, computer-assisted cognitive rehabilitation, physical activity, goal setting, and multimodal rehabilitation. We found that goal setting, computer-assisted cognitive rehabilitation, and multimodal rehabilitation can improve working memory deficits. While transcranial direct current stimulation and physical activity were inconsistent, further studies are needed. The small sample size, no follow-up, the inclusion of only a few studies, the size of the stroke, and comorbid conditions like mild cognitive impairment, dementia, and depression were the main limitations of this study. Future reviews must include a larger number of studies with large sample sizes, including follow-up as an inclusion criterion. We need more clinical trials on these methods for better knowledge.
Copyright © 2022, Velugoti et al.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Procedure for Organizing a Post-FDA-approval Evaluation of Antidepressants.
The study reports the construction of a cohort used to study the effectiveness of antidepressants.
The cohort includes experiences of 3,678,082 patients with depression in the United States on antidepressants between January 1, 2001, and December 31, 2018. A total of 10,221,145 antidepressant treatment episodes were analyzed. Patients who had no utilization of health services for at least two years, or who had died, were excluded from the analysis. Follow-up was passive, automatic, and collated from fragmented clinical services of diverse providers.
The average follow-up was 2.93 years, resulting in 15,096,055 person-years of data. The mean age of the cohort was 46.54 years (standard deviation of 17.48) at first prescription of antidepressant, which was also the enrollment event (16.92% were over 65 years), and most were female (69.36%). In 10,221,145 episodes, within the first 100 days of start of the episode, 4,729,372 (46.3%) continued their treatment, 1,306,338 (12.8%) switched to another medication, 3,586,156 (35.1%) discontinued their medication, and 599,279 (5.9%) augmented their treatment.
We present a procedure for constructing a cohort using claims data. A surrogate measure for self-reported symptom remission based on the patterns of use of antidepressants has been proposed to address the absence of outcomes in claims. Future studies can use the procedures described here to organize studies of the comparative effectiveness of antidepressants.
Copyright © 2022, Alemi et al.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sexual Dysfunction in Female Patients Undergoing Hemodialysis and Its Relationship With Anxiety and Depression.
Introduction Hemodialysis is renal replacement therapy. However, it is associated with various complications. Sexual dysfunction is one of them. It is estimated that 25%-64% of female patients on hemodialysis have sexual dysfunction worldwide. This impaired quality of life further leads to anxiety and depression. Around 22.8%-39.3% of patients on hemodialysis are depressed while 27% have a major anxiety disorder. In Pakistan, the incidence of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) is 100 per million people. As far as we know, this is the first study conducted in Multan to assess sexual dysfunction in female patients undergoing hemodialysis. The objective of this study was to find out the prevalence of sexual dysfunction in female patients on hemodialysis and its relationship with anxiety and depression. Material and methods A cross-sectional study was conducted in Nishtar Medical University Hospital, Multan, Pakistan, from February 2021 to May 2021. Data were collected from 55 female patients in the form of an interview after having met inclusion and exclusion criteria. The questionnaire had some sociodemographic questions. The female sexual function index (FSFI) was used to evaluate sexual dysfunction in hemodialysis patients while anxiety and depression were assessed using the hospital anxiety and depression (HADS) scale. SPSS version 25.0 (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY) was used for data analysis. Pearson's correlation was used to find the association of sexual dysfunction with anxiety and depression. A p-value of <0.05 was considered statistically significant. Results Hypertension (56.4%) was the leading cause of chronic kidney disease (CKD). The most serious problem of the patients was sexual arousal suggested by the low mean score (1.77 ± 2.27) as compared to other sexual domains. Anxiety and depression were found in 20% and 30.9% of patients, respectively. There was a significant negative correlation between age ((arousal: r= -0.297, p= 0.028), (lubrication: r= -0.274, p= 0.043), (orgasm: r= -0.298, p= 0.027), and (pain: r= -0.271, p= 0.045)) and depression ((desire: r= -0.465, p= <0.001), (satisfaction: r= -0.366, p= 0.006)) with sexual function. While anxiety was not significantly associated with sexual function ((desire: r= -0.347, p= 0.069), (arousal: r= 0.053, p= 0.700), (lubrication: r= 0.061, p= 0.658), (orgasm: r= 0.047, p= 0.736), (satisfaction: r= -0.113, p= 0.410) and (pain: r= 0.045, p= 0.746)). Conclusion Sexual dysfunction is not uncommon in female hemodialysis patients. There was a significant negative correlation of different sexual domains with age and depression, respectively. The correlation of anxiety with sexual dysfunction was found to be statistically insignificant.
Copyright © 2022, Shah et al.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cognitive Impairment in Strategic Infarct Dementia: A Report of Three Cases.
Strokes involving specific areas regulating cognition and behavioral functions constitute strategic infarct vascular dementia. We present three patients with acute behavioral changes and cognitive impairment following a strategic infarct. Case 1 is of a 59-year-old male, a known patient of diabetes mellitus under treatment, who presented with acute onset of memory deficit along with difficulty in recognizing faces, and left hemispatial neglect. Case 2 is of a 62-year-old male, a smoker, who presented with acute onset of behavioral abnormalities, gait apraxia, and decreased word output. Case 3 is of a 64-year-old female, a known patient of type 2 diabetes mellitus and cerebrovascular accident with left hemiparesis, who presented with psychomotor withdrawal, depression, and cautious gait. One of the most prevalent forms of dementia in adults is vascular dementia, often caused by multiple small strokes, termed multi-infarct dementia. Strategic infarct dementia, on the other hand, is usually caused by a small, single cerebral infarct. The strategic brain regions specifically involved in post-stroke cognitive impairment requires detailed clinical examination along with radiological imaging for accurate localization. Thus the cognitive impact of ischemic strokes can be understood and predicted by clinicians with the help of maps of strategic brain regions associated with global and domain-specific cognitive functions.
Copyright © 2022, Sanker et al.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Technostress, Coping, and Anxious and Depressive Symptomatology in University Students During the COVID-19 Pandemic.
The COVID-19 pandemic raised many challenges for university staff and students, including the need to work from home, which resulted in a greater reliance on technology. We collected questionnaire data from university students (N = 894) in three European countries: Greece, Italy, and the United Kingdom. Data were collected between 7th April 2020 and 19th June 2020, representing a period covering the first lockdown and university closures in these countries and across Europe generally. We tested the hypotheses that technology-related stressors (techno-overload, work-home conflict, techno-ease, techno-reliability, techno-sociality, and pace of change) would be associated with anxiety and depressive symptoms, and that coping styles (problem-focused, emotion-focused, and avoidance) would mediate these relationships. Results showed significant positive associations between techno-overload, work-home conflict and anxiety and depressive symptoms, and significant negative associations between techno-reliability, techno-ease and anxiety and depressive symptoms. A significant negative association was found between techno-sociality and depressive symptoms but not anxiety symptoms. No evidence was found for an association between pace of change and anxiety or depressive symptoms. Multiple mediation analyses revealed significant direct effects of techno-overload, work-home conflict and techno-ease on anxiety symptoms, and of work-home conflict and techno-ease on depressive symptoms. Work-home conflict had significant indirect effects on anxiety and depressive symptoms through avoidance coping. Techno-overload and techno-ease both had significant indirect effects on anxiety symptoms through problem- and emotion-focused coping. Techno-ease also had a significant indirect effect on depressive symptoms through problem-focused coping. The findings add to the body of evidence on technostress amongst university students and provide knowledge on how technostress translates through coping strategies into anxious and depressive symptoms during the disruption caused by the outbreak of a pandemic disease.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Refugee Mothers Mental Health and Social Support Needs: A Systematic Review of Interventions for Refugee Mothers.
Refugee mothers endure and are at risk for depression, post-traumatic stress, suicidality, and anxiety. There is a gap in the literature regarding interventions for refugee mothers' mental health and well-being. Interventions involving refugee mothers rarely provide adequate support for refugee mothers' specific mental health needs and challenges. This paper presents empirical evidence to contextualize the risks refugee mothers face, such as gender-based violence, mental health challenges, and language barriers. Then, the paper provides a critical systematic review of interventions conducted with refugee mothers. The critical systematic review suggests that creating and providing a safe space, being a linguistic liaison, community-building, and advocating for refugee mothers' needs are emergent protective factors for refugee mothers. Finally, based on the review, recommendations for future interventions followed.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Psychological Effects of Imprisonment: The Role of Cognitive, Psychopathic and Affective Traits.
The present cross-sectional correlational study aimed to investigate a set of cognitive, affective, and personality traits impacting the psychological effects of imprisonment. Ninety-three male inmates filled out a battery including measures of intelligence, working memory, psychopathy, aggressiveness, anxious trait, emotionality, rumination styles, and empathy proneness. Inmates' psychological outcomes were conceptualized in terms of mood, anxiety, depression, and general health. Results showed that inmates with high cognitive abilities, psychopathic impulsivity, proactive aggression, personal distress and fantasy, anxious and negative emotionality are mainly prone to ill-being psychological outcomes. Contrariwise, the fearless dominance trait, positive emotionality and empathic concern ability seem to expose inmates to positive psychological outcomes. Reactive aggression and perspective taking seem to impact both positive and negative moods. Ruminative style was unrelated to psychological outcomes. These preliminary results provide an insight into which factors intervention programs should be based upon in order to enhance well-being and reduce distress among inmates.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Canadian Healthcare System and Individuals with Severe Mental Disorders During Coronavirus Disease 2019: Challenges and Unmet Needs.
The Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic is a syndemic of viral infection and mental health adversity. The pandemic has exacerbated inequalities of access to care in vulnerable populations within the Canadian mental healthcare system. Primary care services are first-line health services in Canada, and are necessary to access specialized services. However, as a result of the limited availability of primary health services, and subsequently, specialized providers (eg, psychiatrists), the demand for these services outweigh the supply. Hitherto, timely access to appropriate services has been cited as a common challenge in Canada as a result of limitations as it relates to resources and in-person activities and support services. While there has been an increase in virtual care opportunities, concerns have been raised with respect to the digital divide. Moreover, while individuals with serious mental illness (SMI) and psychosis are at an increased risk for hospitalization and death from COVID-19, testing and vaccination services have not been prioritized for this population. Taken together, increased funding for mental health service delivery should be emphasized especially for individuals with SMI. There should also be a focus on increased collaboration among individuals with lived experience and health care providers to ensure future policies are developed specifically for this population. Addressing the social determinants of health and prioritizing a continuum of care across various stakeholders may lead to strong integration of care both during and after the pandemic.
© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the University of Maryland’s school of medicine, Maryland Psychiatric Research Center.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Polish version of the Depression Anxiety Stress Scale (DASS-42) - adaptation and normalization.
This study aimed to present the Polish adaptation and preliminary normalization of the Depression Anxiety and Stress Scale - 42 (DASS-42).
The study was conducted among 1,021 participants (625 females and 396 males) aged 18-83 years (M = 30.67; SD = 13.25). It was a non-clinical sample. Second sample was a group of 49 psychiatric patients (28 females and 21 males) aged 22-76 years (M = 49.40; SD = 13.34). The reliability of the DASS-42 was measured using Cronbach's α coefficients and intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC).
In the non-clinical sample the Cronbach's alpha coefficient was 0.93 points for the depression subscale; 0.89 points for the anxiety subscale; 0.92 for the stress subscale, and 0.96 for the DASS-42 total score. The ICC were satisfactory, between 0.37 and 0.49 points. Psychiatric patients obtained significantly higher results in all subscales and in a total score of the DASS-42 (p< 0.001) than healthy participants. It is an indicator of good concurrent validity of the method. The effect size of the differences for all questionnaire indicators was large (0.96 <d< 1.44). The results for the healthy men and women differed, while the age did not differentiate the respondents. The sten scale was developed taking into account the gender of the respondents.
The obtained results confirmed the satisfactory psychometric properties of the Polish version of the DASS-42. This inventory may be useful for screening in non-clinical groups and groups of psychiatric patients.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[One case of rhabdomyolysis caused by acute phoxim poisoning].
Patients with organophosphate poisoning usually die from respiratory depression and respiratory failure. The incidence of rhabdomyolysis is relatively low, but the mortality rate is extremely high once it occurs. In this paper, the treatment of a patient with acute phoxim poisoning was analyzed. The patient developed severe rhabdomyolysis syndrome on the 3rd day of treatment, the creatine kinase exceeded the normal value by more than 300 times (up to 103510.65 U/L) , and renal failure occurred. Clinical treatment included active detoxification, blood purification, organ support, and internal environment maintenance. The patient's rhabdomyolysis continued, and the condition worsened. Finally, the family gave up the treatment and the patient died. It is suggested that attention should be paid to the occurrence of rhabdomyolysis syndrome during the treatment of organophosphorus poisoning, and timely blood purification technology may be the key to treatment.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[A case of ocular albinism with an abnormal visual evoked potential].
A 16-year-old male patient had poor binocular vision, alternating exotropia, horizontal nystagmus, and no obvious pigmentation loss in the eyes and other parts of the body. Optical coherence tomographic examination showed no normal central macular depression. The three-channel flash visual evoked potential method was used to examine each eye. The left and right channel reactions were found to be significantly asymmetric, and the clinical diagnosis was ocular albinism.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Anxiety and depression symptoms, albuminuria and risk of acute myocardial infarction in the Norwegian HUNT cohort study.
Studies suggest increased risk for an outcome in people with joint exposures that share common causal pathways. The objective of this study was to determine the risk of incident acute myocardial infarction (AMI) following exposure to both albuminuria and/or anxiety and depression symptoms.
Participants who provided urine samples to the HUNT2 (1995-97) or HUNT3 (2007-2009) surveys were followed until the end of 2016. Albuminuria was measured by Albumin Creatine Ratio (ACR) and participants self-reported mood and anxiety symptoms on the Hospital Anxiety and Depression scale. We used Cox regression to estimate hazard ratios (HRs) for first incident AMI considering interaction between exposures and additive models to calculate the proportion of AMI that were attributable to the synergy of both exposures, adjusted for the Framingham variables.
Eleven thousand fourteen participants free of previous AMI were eligible for participation, with 1234 incident AMIs occurred during a mean 13.7 years of follow-up. For participants who had a healthier CVD risk profile, the HR for AMI of having both albuminuria (3-30 mg/mmol) and depression (≥8) was 2.62 (95% 1.12-6.05) compared with a HR 1.34 (95% CI 1.04-1.74) with raised ACR only (Likelihood Ratio-test 0.03). Adding anxiety (≥8) to albuminuria (3-30) tripled the risk (HR 3.32 95% CI 1.43-7.17). The additive models suggest that these risks are not higher than expected based on each risk factor alone.
This study indicate that the risk of AMI in persons with elevated albuminuria but with an otherwise healthy CVD profile might be amplified by anxiety and depression symptoms. The increased risk with joint risk factors is not higher than expected based on each risk factor alone, which indicate that the risk factors do not share causal pathways.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Depression was associated with younger age, female sex, obesity, smoking, and physical inactivity, in 1027 patients with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes: a Swedish multicentre cross-sectional study.
Depression is a risk factor for type 2 diabetes (T2D) and cardiovascular disease (CVD). The aims were to explore the prevalence of depression, anxiety, antidepressant use, obesity, Hemoglobin A1c > 64 mmol/mol, life-style factors, pre-existing CVD, in patients with newly diagnosed T2D; to explore associations with depression; and to compare with Swedish general population data.
Multicentre, cross-sectional study.
adults with serologically verified newly diagnosed T2D. Included variables: age, sex, current depression and anxiety (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale), previous depression, antidepressant use, obesity (BMI ≥ 30 and ≥ 40 kg/m
2
), Hemoglobin A1c, pre-existing CVD. Logistic regression analyses were performed.
In 1027 T2D patients, aged 18-94 years, depression was associated with age (per year) (inversely) (odds ratio (OR) 0.97), anxiety (OR 12.2), previous depression (OR 7.1), antidepressant use (OR 4.2), BMI ≥ 30 kg/m
2
 (OR 1.7), BMI ≥ 40 kg/m
2
 (OR 2.3), smoking (OR 1.9), physical inactivity (OR 1.8), and women (OR 1.6) (all p ≤ 0.013). Younger women (n = 113), ≤ 59 years, compared to younger men (n = 217) had higher prevalence of current depression (31% vs 12%), previous depression (43 vs 19%), anxiety (42% vs 25%), antidepressant use (37% vs 12%), BMI ≥ 30 kg/m
2
 (73% vs 60%) and BMI ≥ 40 kg/m
2
) (18% vs 9%), and smoking (26% vs 16%) (all p ≤ 0.029). Older women (n = 297), ≥ 60 years, compared to older men (n = 400) had higher prevalence of previous depression (45% vs 12%), anxiety (18% vs 10%), antidepressant use (20% vs 8%), BMI ≥ 30 kg/m
2
 (55% vs 47%), BMI ≥ 40 kg/m
2
 (7% vs 3%) (all p ≤ 0.048), but not of current depression (both 9%). Compared to the Swedish general population (depression (women 11.2%, men 12.3%) and antidepressant use (women 9.8%, men 5.3%)), the younger women had higher prevalence of current depression, and all patients had higher prevalence of antidepressant use.
In patients with newly diagnosed T2D, the younger women had the highest prevalence of depression, anxiety, and obesity. The prevalence of depression in young women and antidepressant use in all patients were higher than in the Swedish general population. Three risk factors for CVD, obesity, smoking, and physical inactivity, were associated with depression.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Clinical correlates of women endorsing premenstrual suicidal ideation: a cross-sectional study.
Prevalence of premenstrual syndrome (PMS) may be as high as 13-18%, but it remains under-recognized and is associated with increased suicidal ideation (SI), plans, and attempts in epidemiological studies. The present study reports on women endorsing premenstrual SI (PMSI) and characterizes this at-risk group and its clinical correlates.
A cross-sectional study assessed demographics, anxiety and depression severity, psychiatric diagnoses, menstrual symptoms, SI, and trauma in adult women at a major medical center over 11 months.
Three hundred two women were assessed. Of 153 participants endorsing premenstrual symptoms, 41 (27%) reported new or worsening concurrent premenstrual passive or active SI. Women who reported PMSI were significantly more likely to be single, unemployed, and childless as well as significantly more likely to report interference from premenstrual symptoms, histories of psychiatric hospitalization, adverse childhood events, suicide attempts, and current and past depression and anxiety compared to women without PMSI. The final regression model indicated the most significant predictors of PMSI were history of a depression diagnosis, severity of current depressive symptoms, and having experienced 3 or more childhood adverse events.
Nearly one-third of women reporting premenstrual symptoms endorsed concurrent SI, a clinically valuable demonstration of the importance of this predictable cyclic risk factor.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pride and adversity among nurses and physicians during the pandemic in two US healthcare systems: a mixed methods analysis.
Our aims were to examine themes of the most difficult or distressing events reported by healthcare workers during the first wave of COVID-19 pandemic in two US health care systems in order to identify common themes and then to relate them to both behavioral theory and measures of anxiety and depression.
We conducted a cross-sectional survey of nurses and physicians during the early phases of the COVID-19 pandemic in the US. An emailed recruitment letter was sent, with about half choosing to supply open-ended responses relevant to thematic analysis. We measured symptoms of anxiety and depression separately, captured demographics, and asked two open-ended questions regarding events that were the most difficult or stressful, and reinforced pride. We reported descriptive statistics and coded thematic categories for their continuum "pride" and "distress" the factors related to fostering well-being according to the Self-Determination Theory.
Themes that emerged from these narratives were congruent with prediction of Self-Determination theory that autonomy-supportive experiences will foster pride, while autonomy-thwarting experiences will cause distress. Those who reported distressful events were more anxious and depressed compared to those who did not. Among those who reported incidences that reinforced pride in the profession, depression was rarer compared to those who did not. These trends were evident after allowing for medical history and other covariates in logistic regressions.
Causal claims from our analysis should be made with caution due to the cross-sectional research design. Understanding perceptions of the pandemic by nurses and physicians may help identify and manage sources of distress, and suggest means of mitigating the risk of mental health distress through autonomy-supportive policies.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sex differences in the medial prefrontal cortical glutamate system.
Dysregulation in the prefrontal cortex underlies a variety of psychiatric illnesses, including substance use disorder, depression, and anxiety. Despite the established sex differences in prevalence and presentation of these illnesses, the neural mechanisms driving these differences are largely unexplored. Here, we investigate potential sex differences in glutamatergic transmission within the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). The goal of these experiments was to determine if there are baseline sex differences in transmission within this region that may underlie sex differences in diseases that involve dysregulation in the prefrontal cortex.
Adult male and female C57Bl/6J mice were used for all experiments. Mice were killed and bilateral tissue samples were taken from the medial prefrontal cortex for western blotting. Both synaptosomal and total GluA1 and GluA2 levels were measured. In a second set of experiments, mice were killed and ex vivo slice electrophysiology was performed on prepared tissue from the medial prefrontal cortex. Spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents and rectification indices were measured.
Females exhibit higher levels of synaptosomal GluA1 and GluA2 in the mPFC compared to males. Despite similar trends, no statistically significant differences are seen in total levels of GluA1 and GluA2. Females also exhibit both a higher amplitude and higher frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents and greater inward rectification in the mPFC compared to males.
Overall, we conclude that there are sex differences in glutamatergic transmission in the mPFC. Our data suggest that females have higher levels of glutamatergic transmission in this region. This provides evidence that the development of sex-specific pharmacotherapies for various psychiatric diseases is important to create more effective treatments.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Effects of qigong exercise on the physical and mental health of college students: a systematic review and Meta-analysis.
Physical and mental health problems are becoming more serious among college students due to lifestyle changes and increased academic stress. Qigong exercise has been regarded as a potentially effective intervention to improve the physical and mental health of college students.
Eleven databases were searched from their respective inception dates to April 2022. Relevant randomized controlled trials (RCTs) were included. Physical and psychological conditions, including limb muscle strength, flexibility, cardiorespiratory endurance, vital capacity, blood pressure and heart rate, as well as depression, anxiety and mood, were evaluated. The risk of bias was assessed with the Cochrane Collaboration tool.
Sixteen randomized controlled trials were included in the meta-analysis. Significant improvements in cardiorespiratory endurance (MD = 3.83, 95% CI: 0.99 to 6.67, P = 0.008) and flexibility (MD = 3.01, 95% CI: 1.21 to 4.81, P = 0.001) were observed. We also observed that Qigong exercise significantly reduced depression and anxiety symptoms (SMD=-0.89, 95% CI: -1.17 to -0.61, P < 0.00001; SMD=-0.78, 95% CI: -1.31 to -0.25, P = 0.004). Nevertheless, no significant effects on muscle strength, vital capacity, blood pressure, heart rate or mood were found.
Qigong exercise was advantageous for college students in terms of improving flexibility and cardiorespiratory endurance and alleviating depression and anxiety to some extent. However, due to the limited number of eligible trials and the low methodological quality, more well-designed RCTs are needed in the future.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aberrant interhemispheric functional connectivity in major depressive disorder with and without anhedonia.
Anhedonia is a core feature of major depressive disorder (MDD), and as a subtype of depression, MDD with anhedonia may have exceptional neurobiological mechanisms. However, the neuropathology of anhedonia in MDD remains unclear. Thus, this study aimed to investigate the brain functional differences between MDD with and without anhedonia.
A total of 62 individuals including 22 MDD patients with anhedonia, 20 MDD patients without anhedonia, and 20 healthy controls (HCs) were recruited for this study. All participants underwent 3.0-T functional magnetic resonance imaging scan. Voxel-mirrored homotopic connectivity (VMHC) was employed to quantitatively describe bilateral functional connectivity. Analyses of variance (ANOVA) were performed to obtain brain regions with significant differences among three groups and then post hoc tests were calculated for inter-group comparisons.
The ANOVA revealed significant VMHC differences among three groups in the bilateral middle temporal gyrus (MTG), superior frontal gyrus (SFG), and inferior parietal lobule (IPL) (F = 10.47 ~ 15.09, p < 0.05, AlphaSim corrected). Relative to HCs, MDD with anhedonia showed significantly decreased VMHC in the bilateral MTG (t = -5.368, p < 0.05, AlphaSim corrected), as well as increased VMHC in the bilateral SFG (t = -4.696, p < 0.05, AlphaSim corrected). Compared to MDD without anhedonia, MDD with anhedonia showed significantly decreased VMHC in the bilateral MTG and IPL (t = -5.629 ~ -4.330, p < 0.05, AlphaSim corrected), while increased VMHC in the bilateral SFG (t = 3.926, p < 0.05, AlphaSim corrected). However, no significant difference was found between MDD without anhedonia and HCs.
The present findings suggest that MDD with and without anhedonia exhibit different patterns of interhemispheric connectivity. Anhedonia in MDD is related to aberrant interhemispheric connectivity within brain regions involved in the frontal-temporal-parietal circuit.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Vitamin D levels among children, adolescents, adults, and elders in Pakistani population: a cross-sectional study.
Vitamin D is not only an essential part of a healthy diet but it is also known as the sunshine hormone. It helps to absorb calcium and phosphate within the body and is essential for the development of teeth and bones in growing children. Deficiency in vitamin D causes weak bones, osteoporosis in older individuals, and osteomalacia in children. It also causes loss of alveolar bone around the teeth, increased dental cavities, and other problems associated with gum disease. It can cause depression, fatigue, and appetite loss. This study aims to observe vitamin D deficiency, insufficiency, and sufficiency among children, adults, adolescents, and elders in the Pakistani population.
A cross-sectional survey was conducted with 27,880 individuals referred from the general out-patient-department (OPD) to Dow Diagnostic Research and Reference Laboratory (DDRRL) units at Dow University of Health Sciences (DUHS) Karachi, Pakistan, for a period of three months from January to March 2017. They were examined for laboratory findings of serum 25 hydroxyvitamin D levels to determine vitamin D deficiency, insufficiency, and sufficiency among all age groups of both male and female genders.
A total of 26,750 individuals with a mean age of 38 ± 18 years were statistically examined for laboratory findings of serum vitamin D levels. Vitamin D deficiency was observed in 56% of individuals with a mean log of 1.01 ± 0.18 ng/ml serum vitamin D levels, vitamin D insufficiency in 20% of individuals with a mean log of 1.38 ± 0.05 ng/ml serum vitamin D levels and vitamin D sufficiency in 24% individuals with a mean log of 1.63 ± 0.12 ng/ml serum vitamin D levels. The highest percentage of individuals deficient in vitamin D were children and adolescents of age ranging between 6 to 18 years.
The findings of vitamin D deficiency in children and adolescents direct higher authorities in the public health sector to take immediate steps to screen, intervene and educate high-risk populations incorporating vitamin D supplements to establish preventive and therapeutic measures.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The effects of pregnancy discrimination on postpartum depressive symptoms: a follow-up study.
Pregnancy discrimination in the workplace is prevalent worldwide. However, few studies have examined the effects of pregnancy discrimination on mothers' perinatal mental health. We aimed to investigate the association between pregnancy discrimination and postpartum depressive symptoms, and the mediation effects of prenatal depressive symptoms on this association.
Our sample consisted of 285 Japanese women employed during pregnancy who completed a baseline online survey in May 2020 and a follow-up mail survey two months postpartum. Pregnancy discrimination was defined as exposure to any of 16 forms of disadvantageous treatment or harassment related to pregnancy, prohibited by national guidelines. Prenatal (assessed at baseline) and postpartum (assessed at follow-up) depressive symptoms were measured using the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale. Multiple linear regression and mediation analyses were performed overall and stratified by regular (permanent) and non-regular (precarious) employees.
Overall, 23.9% of participants experienced pregnancy discrimination during pregnancy. After adjusting for potential confounders, pregnancy discrimination was significantly associated with postpartum depressive symptoms (coefficient 1.76, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.65-2.88). When stratified by employment type, these effects were observable among non-regular employees (coefficient 2.51, 95% CI 0.45-4.57) but not regular employees. Mediation analysis showed that prenatal depressive symptoms mediated 57.1% (95% CI 20.1-94.1%) of the association between pregnancy discrimination and postpartum depressive symptoms among all participants, with a greater effect among non-regular employees (64.1% [95% CI 18.5-109.8%]).
Pregnancy discrimination has adverse effects on postpartum depressive symptoms, partially through prenatal depressive symptoms, especially among non-regular employees. To prevent perinatal depression in female workers, employers should comply with legislation and take preventive measures against pregnancy discrimination, while considering vulnerable employees.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Association between changes in depressive symptoms and hip fracture among middle-aged and older Chinese individuals: a prospective cohort study.
Although studies have shown that depressive symptoms are associated with an increased risk of hip fracture (HF). Depressive symptoms are dynamic, and it is unclear whether HF risk persists if depressive symptoms remit. This study aims to examine the associations between changes in depressive symptoms and HF risk.
Data were from the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study from 2011 to 2018. Depressive symptoms were measured using the 10-item version of the Center for Epidemiological Studied Depression scale (cutoff ≥ 10). Changes in depressive symptoms were classified into four groups by two successive surveys (stable low/no, recent-onset, recently remitted, and stable high depressive symptoms). Multivariable logistic regressions were performed to assess whether changes in depressive symptoms were associated with HF incidents reported through 2018, adjusting for age, sex, educational level, marital status and other potential confounding factors.
In total, 8574 participants were included, 265 (3.1%) of whom had reported HF incidents in the subsequent 5-year period. Participants with recent-onset (OR = 1.97, 95% CI = 1.40-2.77) or stable high (OR = 2.15, 95% CI = 1.53-3.02) symptoms had a higher risk of HF than those with stable low/no depressive symptoms, whereas those with improved depressive symptoms (OR = 1.27, 95% CI = 0.89-1.82) had no elevation in HF risk.
Stable high and recent-onset depressive symptoms were associated with increased HF risk, and no elevated HF risk was observed if symptoms remitted, suggesting that strategies to reduce depressive symptoms may be beneficial for HF prevention.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pathomechanisms of depression in multiple system atrophy.
Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a rapidly progressing neurodegenerative disorder of uncertain etiology that is characterized by various combinations of Parkinsonism, autonomic, cerebellar and motor dysfunctions, with poor prognosis. Little is known about modifiable factors, such as depression, that has negative effects on quality of life in MSA. Depression, with an estimated prevalence of about 43%, is among the most common neuropsychiatric disorders in MSA similar to other atypical Parkinsonian disorders, the frequency of which is associated with increased disease progression, disease severity and autonomic dysfunctions. Depression in MSA, like in Parkinson disease, has been related to a variety of pathogenic mechanisms associated with the underlying neurodegenerative process, such as involvement of serotonergic neuron groups in the brainstem, prefrontal cortical dysfunctions, and altered functional fronto-temporal-thalamic connectivities with disturbances of mood related and other essential resting-state brain networks. The pathophysiology and pathogenesis of depression in MSA, as in other degenerative movement disorders, are complex and deserve further elucidation as a basis for adequate treatment to improve the quality of life in this fatal disease.
© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Austria, part of Springer Nature.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Towards a knowledge graph for pre-/probiotics and microbiota-gut-brain axis diseases.
Scientific publications present biological relationships but are structured for human reading, making it difficult to use this resource for semantic integration and querying. Existing databases, on the other hand, are well structured for automated analysis, but do not contain comprehensive biological knowledge. We devised an approach for constructing comprehensive knowledge graphs from these two types of resources and applied it to investigate relationships between pre-/probiotics and microbiota-gut-brain axis diseases. To this end, we created (i) a knowledge base, dubbed ppstatement, containing manually curated detailed annotations, and (ii) a knowledge base, called ppconcept, containing automatically annotated concepts. The resulting Pre-/Probiotics Knowledge Graph (PPKG) combines these two knowledge bases with three other public databases (i.e. MeSH, UMLS and SNOMED CT). To validate the performance of PPKG and to demonstrate the added value of integrating two knowledge bases, we created four biological query cases. The query cases demonstrate that we can retrieve co-occurring concepts of interest, and also that combining the two knowledge bases leads to more comprehensive query results than utilizing them separately. The PPKG enables users to pose research queries such as "which pre-/probiotics combinations may benefit depression?", potentially leading to novel biological insights.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Evaluating cognitive disturbances as treatment target and predictor of antidepressant action in major depressive disorder: A NeuroPharm study.
Cognitive disturbances in major depressive disorder (MDD) constitute a critical treatment target and hold promise as an early predictor of antidepressant treatment response; yet their clinical relevance is not fully established. Therefore, we here investigate if (1) cognitive performance improves over the course of antidepressant treatment and (2) cognitive performance at baseline is predictive of antidepressant treatment response. In the NeuroPharm study (clinical trial id: NCT02869035), 92 antidepressant-free patients with a moderate to severe depressive episode were assessed with a comprehensive cognitive test battery including both cold (emotion-independent) and hot (emotion-dependent) tasks. Patients were tested before and after 12 weeks of standard antidepressant treatment with escitalopram in flexible doses of 10-20 mg. Performance improved across most cognitive domains over the course of antidepressant treatment. Notably, these improvements were independent of improvement in mood symptoms, emphasizing that cognitive disturbances are a distinct symptom and therefore treatment target in MDD. Results did not suggest that performance on any single cognitive measure at baseline was associated with later clinical response to antidepressant treatment. However, a small cluster of patients (N = 28) with globally disturbed cognition at baseline exhibited poorer clinical response after 8 but not 12 weeks of antidepressant treatment, suggesting that severe cognitive disturbances may delay treatment response. Thus, while pretreatment cognitive performance on individual tests may not be useful as clinical markers of treatment response, profiles capturing performance across different cognitive domains may be useful for stratification of patients with MDD and could be helpful in future intervention trials.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Are the antidepressant effects of insulin-sensitizing medications related to improvements in metabolic markers?
Insulin-sensitizing medications were originally used in psychiatric practice to treat weight gain and other metabolic side effects that accompany the use of mood stabilizers, antipsychotics, and some antidepressants. However, in recent studies these medications have been shown to cause improvement in depressive symptoms, creating a potential new indication outside of metabolic regulation. However, it is still unclear whether the antidepressant properties of these medications are associated with improvements in metabolic markers. We performed a systematic search of the literature following PRISMA guidelines of studies investigating antidepressant effects of insulin-sensitizing medications. We specifically focused on whether any improvements in depressive symptoms were connected to the improvement of metabolic dysfunction. Majority of the studies included in this review reported significant improvement in depressive symptoms following treatment with insulin-sensitizing medications. Nine out of the fifteen included studies assessed for a correlation between improvement in symptoms and changes in metabolic markers and only two of the nine studies found such association, with effect sizes ranging from R
2
 = 0.26-0.38. The metabolic variables, which correlated with improvements in depressive symptoms included oral glucose tolerance test, fasting plasma glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin following treatment with pioglitazone or metformin. The use of insulin-sensitizing medications has a clear positive impact on depressive symptoms. However, it seems that the symptom improvement may be unrelated to improvement in metabolic markers or weight. It is unclear which additional mechanisms play a role in the observed clinical improvement. Some alternative options include inflammatory, neuroinflammatory changes, improvements in cognitive functioning or brain structure. Future studies of insulin-sensitizing medications should measure metabolic markers and study the links between changes in metabolic markers and changes in depression. Additionally, it is important to use novel outcomes in these studies, such as changes in cognitive functioning and to investigate not only acute, but also prophylactic treatment effects.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Association between maternal-infant bonding and depressive symptoms in Neonatal Intensive Care Unit mothers: A case-control study.
Maternal perinatal depression has been associated with impaired mother-infant bonding. The adverse effect of this impaired bonding has been reported. This study aimed to investigate and compare the posnatal depressive symptoms and the mother-infant bonding in a Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) and of mothers with healthy newborns respectively. Secondly, was to explore the association between depressive symptomatology and bonding in both groups.
In this case study, mothers in the early pospartum period who gave birth in the same perinatal center of Greece were recruited to participate. The cases consisted of 88 mothers of neonates who were hospitalized in the NICU and controls were 100 mothers of full-term healthy neonates. For the collection of the data questionnaires including demographics and perinatal variables were used. For the bonding and posnatal assessment, the Mother to Infant Bonding Scale, the Postpartum Bonding Questionnaire, and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale were used.
There was a significant difference between the mean of bonding scores of NICU mothers and the control group (t = -2.696, P = 0.008). NICU mothers presented lower scores in bonding with the newborn compared to the control group and presented higher depression scores compared to those of controls (χ
2
 = 28.588, P = 0.000). The depression scores were correlated with bonding scores in both groups.
A NICU admission has an impact on bonding and in some way interacts with maternal pospartum mental health, therefore more research is needed.
NICU mothers have been presented as more vulnerable than mothers of healthy infants since they expressed a lower mother-infant bonding and higher depression scores. The support of these vulnerable mothers and the facilitation of mother-infant bonding by the NICU staff is of utmost importance.
Copyright © 2021 Sociedad Española de Enfermería Intensiva y Unidades Coronarias (SEEIUC). Published by Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Psychopathological profile and sagittal alignment in low-back pain.
Low-back pain requires comprehensive care using a biopsychosocial model. The psychologic dimension plays an important role, but the link between sagittal alignment and a given psychopathological profile is little studied. The aim of this study was to analyze the psychopathological profiles and sagittal parameters of a population with low-back pain and to assess the link.
205 patients, with a mean age of 49.6 years (range, 18-70 years), presenting chronic common low-back pain without radicular involvement, were included prospectively. Mood scores comprised: the self-administered "Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale" (HAD), Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAM-A), Hamilton Depression Scale (HAM-D) and Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS). Radiological parameters, measured on lateral full-spine radiographs, included: L1-S1 lordosis, T1-T12 kyphosis, pelvic incidence, pelvic tilt, sacral slope, sagittal vertical axis (SVA), T1 slope, and Roussouly type.
Mean HAM-A score was 16.1; 54% of patients had scores ≥14, indicating anxiety disorder. Mean HAM-D score was 10.8; 55% of patients had scores ≥10, indicating depressive disorder. Mean YMRS score was 2.6; only 1 patient had a score ≥20, indicating manic disorder. The 112 patients with HAM-A score >14 showed mean 51.6° L1-S1 lordosis (p = 0.356), 48.3° T1-T12 kyphosis (p = 0.590), -4.3mm C7 SVA (p = 0.900), and 29.3° T1 slope (p = 0.451). In case of HAM-A <14, there were no significant differences. The 113 patients with HAM-D score >10 showed significant differences in T1-T12 kyphosis (mean 49.0°; p <0.05) and T1 slope (30.2°; p <0.05); mean L1-S1 lordosis was 50.5° (p = 0.861) and C7 SVA 1.6 mm (p = 0.462). In case of HAM-D <10, T1-T12 kyphosis was 45.5° (p <0.05) and T1 slope 26.2° (p <0.05); mean lordosis was 50.9° (p = 0.861) and mean C7 SVA -7.1mm (p = 0.259). Multivariate analysis found no significant link between Roussouly type and psychiatric scores: HAD (p = 0.715), HAM-A (p = 0.652), and HAM-D (p = 0.902).
More than 50% of patients with common low-back pain presented a mood disorder. Depressive disorder was associated with greater T1-T12 kyphosis and T1 slope. There was no relationship between psychiatric scores and overall sagittal alignment.
II.
Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Association Between Total Cholesterol and Cognitive Impairment in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Patients.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is primarily a respiratory system disorder associated with extrapulmonary conditions. Cognitive impairment (CoI) is very common among COPD patients This study sought to investigate the association between CoI and clinical parameters, inflammatory markers and lipid profiles in a COPD patient population.
The study population included 111 stable COPD patients. COPD was diagnosed according to Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease guideline. Total complete blood count test and biochemical measurements including lipid profile were performed. Afterwards, all patients underwent neuropsychological assessment including Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index and Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) tests.
The patients were categorized into two groups according to their MoCA test score: MoCA score ≤21 (CoI) (n=69) and MoCA score >21 (normal cognition) (n=42). Total cholesterol (TC) levels were significantly lower in patients with CoI compared to patients with normal cognition. Inflammation related parameters including C-reactive protein were similar among groups. Multivariate logistic regression analysis yielded education, HADS score and TC (OR:1.02, 95% CI:1.00-1.04, p=0.025) as independent predictors of MoCA score.
TC independently associates with CoI in COPD patients. There is comparable inflammatory status in COPD patients with CoI compared to COPD patients with normal cognition.
Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bactericidal permeability-increasing protein/LPS-binding protein (BPI/LBP) enhances resistance of golden pompano Trachinotus ovatus against bacterial infection.
Antimicrobial peptides are crucial components of innate immunity against microbial invasions. As a kind of antimicrobial peptides, bactericidal permeability-increasing protein (BPI)/lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP) play vital roles in defending the host against gram-negative bacteria. In the current study, a novel BPI/LBP from Trachinotus ovatus (TroBPI/LBP) was characterized. The full length of TroBPI/LBP cDNA sequence is 1434 bp, which contained 477 amino acids. Multiple amino acid alignments of TroBPI/LBP shows 34.07%-84.49% identity with other fish BPI/LBP. Similar to other BPI/LBP, TroBPI/LBP also possesses an N-terminal signal peptide, a BPI/LBP/CETP N-terminal domain, and a BPI/LBP/CETP C-terminal domain. In vitro, the recombinant protein of TroBPI/LBP showed effective bacterial depression activity and binding activity to gram-negative bacteria. In vivo, TroBPI/LBP was constitutively expressed in tested tissues, and the highest expression level was in liver. Following Vibrio alginolyticus stimulation, the mRNA expression of TroBPI/LBP was significantly upregulated in immune-related tissues, and peaked at 12 h post-infection, which confirmed that TroBPI/LBP was highly sensitive to V. alginolyticus stimuli. Furthermore, functional analyses showed that the overexpression of TroBPI/LBP could enhance the ability of fish to against V. alginolyticus infection, and the knockdown of TroBPI/LBP significantly diminished bacterial clearance capacity post-infection. Therefore, these results suggest that TroBPI/LBP may play an important role in host defense against bacterial infection.
Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mental health interventions in adolescence.
Adolescent mental health (MH) disorders with striking prominence include anxiety, self-harm and depression. The current review aims to highlight high-quality reviews of novel interventions, mainly Cochrane reviews, and/or quality meta-analyses published between 2019 and 2022 on three adolescent mental health challenges. Recent evidence about the effectiveness of psychosocial interventions is encouraging. However, the shift to virtual treatment methods during the pandemic was supported by a relatively thin body of research. Future research and policy in child and youth MH must address the consequences of the pandemic or comparable disruptions on adolescent MH, as well as mitigation strategies. An emphasis on integrated digital, community and school platforms for mental health within child and adolescent health services would benefit from a greater focus on early recognition and prevention.
Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Effectiveness of mindfulness-based stress reduction and mindfulness-based cognitive therapy on depression in poststroke patients-A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.
To evaluate the effectiveness of mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) and mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT) on depressive symptoms in people with stroke.
The PubMed, CINAL, Web of Science, Embase, The Cochrane Library, CNKI, and Wangfang databases were searched for relevant articles from inception to September 1st
,
 2022. Only randomized controlled trials (RCTs) examining the effect of MBSR and MBCT on depressive symptoms in poststroke patients were included. Data extraction and critical appraisal were conducted independently by two investigators.
Seven trials with 502 participants were included. Using standardized mean differences, the meta-analysis showed evidence of a significant effect in depression (SMD = -0.93, 95% CI (-1.34 to -0.53), Z = 4.48, p < 0.001). MBSR and MBCT both affected depressive emotions in poststroke participants with depression (SMD = -1.27, 95% CI (-1.71 to -0.84), p < 0.001) and poststroke participants without clinically defined depression (SMD = -0.46, 95% CI (-0.75 to -0.17), p = 0.002).
Although populations with stroke seem to potentially improve moods from MBSR/MBCT intervention, the impact on the physiological parameters of the disease has not been determined. Further studies with long-term follow-up and higher qualities are warranted for such interventions to determine the full effectiveness.
Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The role of veterans' PTSD symptoms in veteran couples' insomnia.
Insomnia contributes to individual mental and physical health and relationship well-being. Veterans' PTSD symptoms are associated with their own insomnia. However, research has not explored whether and how veterans' PTSD symptoms are associated with their partners' insomnia. The present study examined the association between veterans' PTSD symptom severity and veterans' and partners' insomnia. Veterans (n = 192) and their partners (n = 192; total N = 384) completed baseline assessments in a PTSD treatment study for veterans with PTSD and their partners. Path analysis was used to examine the relation between veterans' PTSD symptom severity, as measured by the PTSD symptom checklist-5 (PCL-5) and veterans' and partners' insomnia, as measured by the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI). Veterans' full-scale PCL-5 was positively related to veterans' and partners' insomnia. For veterans, intrusion and arousal symptoms were positively related to their own insomnia severity, while veterans' negative alterations in cognition and mood were associated with partners' insomnia severity. In exploratory analyses, partners' depressive symptoms fully mediated the relation between veterans' negative cognitions and mood and partners' insomnia. PTSD symptoms impact both veterans' and partners' insomnia. However, different PTSD symptom clusters were related to insomnia for each partner, and the link for partners was explained by their own depression symptoms. PTSD, insomnia, and integrated treatments should consider strategies for including partners in treatment to address these interconnected problems.
© 2022 Family Process Institute.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Two paleopathological cases suggestive of paralabral cysts of the shoulder.
To undertake differential diagnosis of scapular bone defects found in two medieval skeletons buried in different necropoles of Friuli Venezia Giulia (Italy) and to evaluate the clinical significance of paralabral cysts in the context of shoulder pathology.
Individual JoT36 is an adult male exhumed from a necropolis belonging to a rural agricultural settlement dated to the 10th to 11th century A.D. Individual CIVT58 is an adult male from a Langobard necropolis dated to 630-670 A.D.
Macroscopic examination of the skeletons was performed using standard osteological methods and review of pertinent clinical literature to assist differential diagnosis.
Between the glenoid cavity and the spinoglenoid notch of the right scapula of JoT36 there is a multilocular circular defect adjacent to the glenoid rim. On the neck of the left scapula of CIVT58, immediately above the spinoglenoid notch, there is a unilocular circular depression. In both cases, the cortical bone appears smooth without any evidence of erosion or sclerosis.
Skeletal findings and historical/archaeological contexts of both cases are compatible with the diagnosis of paralabral cysts.
Paralabral cysts are relatively frequently observed in clinical settings but very few examples have been documented in paleopathological literature. This study seeks to improve recognition and interpretation of this pathology in historical/archaeological contexts.
Findings from a case report can neither generate epidemiological information nor be generalized.
Identification of new cases may add valuable information about lifestyles and related shoulder pathologies in ancient times.
Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Emotional availability in the mother-child relationship for families of young children with autism spectrum disorder in Australia: A cross-sectional survey.
In families of children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) the mother-child relationship can be affected by many factors; however, the impacts of maternal broad autism phenotype (BAP) and attachment styles are unknown. This study investigated predictors of emotional availability in the mother-child relationship in families of children with ASD.
Mothers (N = 231) of children with ASD living in Australia completed questionnaires assessing emotional availability in the parent-child relationship (mutual attunement, child involvement, affect quality) and mothers' BAP, mental health, adult attachment style and parenting experiences. Hierarchical multiple regressions and a mediation analysis were conducted.
Parent-reported positive parenting experiences was the greatest predictor of mutual attunement, child involvement and affect quality in the parent-child relationship. Maternal stress and anxiety predicted poorer mutual attunement, stress and depressive symptoms predicted less child involvement and anxiety predicted worse affect quality. Negative parenting experiences, maternal anxiety and stress mediated the relationship between BAP and mutual attunement.
Interventions combining mental health and parenting support for mothers of children with ASD to bolster emotional availability within the mother-child relationship may be warranted.
Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Patterns of depressive symptoms over 16 Years with incident dementia: The Health and Retirement Study.
The associations of patterns of depressive symptoms, including trajectories of depressive symptoms and significant depressive symptoms among older adults over a long period of time with incident dementia are not frequently studied. We aimed to examine the associations of patterns of depressive symptoms among older adults with incident dementia. Participants of the Health and Retirement Study from 1994 to 2018 with information of incident dementia and complete measurements of depressive symptoms were included. Depressive symptoms assessed on 8 waves between 1994 and 2010 using the 8-item Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression (CES-D) Scale. Significant depressive symptoms were defined as ≥4 points in the CES-D. Trajectories of depressive symptoms and significant depressive symptoms were identified. Cox proportional hazards models were used to examine the associations of patterns of depressive symptoms with incident dementia. A total of 6317 participants were included in the analysis. Over the follow-up period of 8 years, trajectories of "increase from mild" (hazards ratio (HR): 1.84, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.29, 2.63) and "persistently high" (HR: 1.76, 95% CI: 1.17, 2.65) depressive symptoms were associated with higher risk of incident dementia, after adjustment for covariates. Future studies are needed to examine the interaction of depression in different stages of life on incident dementia. Studies are also expected to estimate the effect of preventing dementia through reducing depressive symptoms.
Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The role of the anterior insular cortex in self-monitoring: A novel study protocol with electrical stimulation mapping and functional magnetic resonance imaging.
Becoming aware of one's own states is a fundamental aspect for self-monitoring, allowing us to adjust our beliefs of the world to the changing context. Previous evidence points out to the key role of the anterior insular cortex (aIC) in evaluating the consequences of our own actions, especially whenever an error has occurred. In the present study, we propose a new multimodal protocol combining electrical stimulation mapping (ESM) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to explore the functional role of the aIC for self-monitoring in patients undergoing awake brain surgery. Our results using a modified version of the Stroop task tackling metacognitive abilities revealed new direct evidence of the involvement of the aIC in monitoring our performance, showing increased difficulties in detecting action-outcome mismatches when stimulating a cortical site located at the most posterior part of the aIC as well as significant BOLD activations at this region during outcome incongruences for self-made actions. Based on these preliminary results, we highlight the importance of assessing the aIC's functioning during tumor resection involving this region to evaluate metacognitive awareness of the self in patients undergoing awake brain surgery. In a similar vein, a better understanding of the aIC's role during self-monitoring may help shed light on action/outcome processing abnormalities reported in several neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, anosognosia for hemiplegia or major depression.
Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Self-Reported Dual Sensory Impairment and Subjective Cognitive Complaints Among Older Adults in the 2019 National Health Interview Survey.
Subjective cognitive complaints (SCCs) are associated with poor quality of life, important for clinical care planning and management, and may predict dementia diagnosis. Dual sensory impairment (DSI) is a risk factor for dementia, but whether DSI is associated with SCCs is unknown. We evaluated whether self-reported DSI is associated with SCCs.
We performed a cross-sectional analysis of 9,899 community-dwelling respondents aged 60+ years without dementia or depression in the 2019 National Health Interview Survey. Participants self-reported difficulty remembering or concentrating, seeing even when wearing corrective lenses, and hearing even when using a hearing aid. We defined SCCs and sensory impairment for each mode as reporting at least some difficulty. We categorized sensory impairment into no sensory impairment, vision impairment only, hearing impairment only, and DSI. We then estimated weighted prevalence ratios (PRs) of SCCs by impairment category.
After weighting (9,899 participants representing a weighted 
n
 = 59,261,749), 12% of participants reported vision impairment only, 19% reported hearing impairment only, and 7% reported DSI. Relative to no impairment, after adjustment for potential confounders, vision impairment (PR = 2.07; 95% confidence interval [CI] [1.79, 2.39]), hearing impairment (PR = 2.26; 95% CI [2.00, 2.55]), and DSI (PR = 3.21; 95% CI [2.83, 3.63]) were associated with an increased prevalence of SCCs.
In this nationally representative survey of older Americans, DSI was associated with a threefold increased prevalence of SCCs. Although cross-sectional, these data underscore the importance of assessing multiple impairments as exposures when studying subjective cognition in older adults.
https://doi.org/10.23641/asha.21498711.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Most Important Things and Associated Factors With Prioritizing Daily Life in Patients With Advanced Lung Cancer.
Patients' values and priorities in their lives should be appreciated from an early phase of incurable diseases such as advanced cancer. However, studies examining these characteristics have been lacking. This study attempted to determine what patients with advanced lung cancer valued most, once they had been diagnosed, and any associated factors.
Patients with newly diagnosed advanced lung cancer (N = 248) were enrolled in a questionnaire survey conducted at 16 hospitals in Japan. Their priorities were assessed using a free-text response to the question what is the most important thing to you now? at the time of diagnosis and 3 months after diagnosis. The free-text responses were classified into 10 categories for quantification. The clinical characteristics associated with the category describing daily life were further examined.
Free-text comments were obtained from 103 (44.0%) and 66 (42.6%) patients at the time of diagnosis and at 3 months, respectively. The most frequent categories were family (at diagnosis: 50.5%; at 3 months: 50.0%) and daily life (at diagnosis: 33.0%; at 3 months: 36.4%), followed by health (at diagnosis: 32.0%; at 3 months: 27.3%) at both time points. The patients mentioning daily life, the issues related to how to spend daily life, showed significantly higher total scores and functional well-being subscale scores on the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung scale at both time points and lower depression scores at diagnosis and lower anxiety scores at 3 months on the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale.
Family and daily life were highly valued by patients with advanced lung cancer at diagnosis. A better quality of life and better mood were associated with mentioning daily life, which should be taken into account in care planning to maintain patients' involvement in daily life even with incurable diseases.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Well-Being Therapy and Lifestyle Intervention in Type 2 Diabetes: A Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial.
This pilot randomized controlled trial evaluates the preliminary efficacy of a 4-month well-being therapy (WBT) and lifestyle intervention among adults with type 2 diabetes and overweight/obesity.
Fifty-eight patients were recruited from two outpatient clinics and randomized to receive the WBT-lifestyle intervention or the lifestyle intervention alone. Data were collected at baseline (T0), immediate postintervention (T1), 6-month follow-up (T2), and 12-month follow-up (T3). Primary efficacy outcomes included changes in weight, psychological distress, and well-being, whereas secondary efficacy outcomes included changes in lifestyle and physiological parameters.
Compared with the lifestyle-alone intervention, the WBT-lifestyle intervention showed greater improvements in depression (p = .009, d = -0.6), hostility (p = .018, d = -0.6), and personal growth (p = .026, d = 0.5) at T1, in self-reported physical activity at T2 (p = .013, d = 0.7) and T3 (p = .040, d = 0.5), and in triglycerides (p = .019, d = -1.12) at T3. There were no differences between treatment groups in weight and other physiological parameters.
These findings suggest that WBT may be a valuable addition to lifestyle interventions for improving short-term psychological outcomes and promoting long-term healthy changes in physical activity, with a potential impact on physiological outcomes.Trial Registration:ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT03609463.
Copyright © 2022 by the American Psychosomatic Society.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Family Caregiver Comorbidities in Lewy Body Dementia Versus Alzheimer Disease and Associated Disorders.
Family caregivers of people living with dementia have high caregiver strain and poor health consequences. Limited research exists on Lewy body dementia (LBD) caregivers and their specific comorbidities. This study aimed to (1) identify the prevalence of self-reported comorbidities among LBD caregivers and (2) contextualize these findings with historical data on caregivers of persons living with Alzheimer disease and associated disorders (ADADs).
In a national, online survey, LBD family caregivers completed the Self-Administered Comorbidity Questionnaire and we compared these findings with extant literature on ADAD caregiver comorbidities.
Among 217 LBD caregivers, 84.3% were female, 39.1% were 64 years old or younger, and 66.8% had >2 years of caregiving experience. Caregivers self-identified as current (83.9%) or former (16.1%) caregivers. The most frequent comorbidities were hypertension (38.2%), depression (35.0%), back pain (34.1%), and arthritis (27.7%). LBD caregivers, particularly younger caregivers, had a higher prevalence of depression compared with ADAD caregivers and older adult populations, and back pain prevalence nearly equivalent to spinal cord injury caregivers.
Our study is the first to illustrate and contextualize specific comorbidities among LBD caregivers. Understanding the causality and impact of these conditions will be critical in designing effective interventions to improve the lives of families affected by LBD.
Copyright © 2022 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Engagement, Use and Impact of Digital Mental Health Resources for Diverse Populations in COVID-19: Community-Partnered Evaluation.
The COVID-19 pandemic increased disparities for communities burdened by structural barriers, such as shortage of affordable housing, with mental health consequences. These impacts are noted across diverse groups; but limited data are available on digital resources as a public health prevention strategy for mental health in COVID-19.
To evaluate engagement in and impact of free digital resources on the Together for Wellness/Juntos por Nuestro Bienestar (T4W/Juntos) website, with content in six categories developed with partner input to support well-being during COVID-19 in California.
A pilot evaluation of T4W/Juntos, with partner agencies inviting providers, clients and partners to visit the website and complete surveys at baseline (9/20/21-4/4/22) and 4-6 week follow-up (10/22/21-5/17/22). Website use was assessed by mean of three engagement items (ease of use, satisfaction, relevance), comfort in use, and use of six resource categories. Outcomes at follow up were depression and anxiety (PHQ2>=3; GAD2>=3 (primary) and post minus pre differences in PHQ2 and GAD2 scores and use of behavioral health hotlines and services (outpatient, inpatient, rehabilitation, hotlines) the month before follow-up (secondary).
Of 366 eligible, 315 (86.1%) completed baseline, of which 193 (61.3%) completed follow-up. Of baseline, 72.6% were female, 21.3% LGBTQ+, 44.0% Hispanic, 17.8% African American, 26.9% non-Hispanic white, 11.4% other ethnicity; 32.7% had moderate anxiety or depression (GAD2/PHQ2>=3). Predictors of baseline website engagement included Hispanic versus other race/ethnicity (Beta (SE) = 0.27 (0.10-.44), P=.002) and COVID behavior changes (Beta (SE) =0.09 (.05-.13), P <.001). For comfort using website, predictors were preferring English for website (OR (CI)=5.57 (2.22-13.96), P <.001); COVID behavior changes (OR (CI)=1.37 (1.12-1.66), P =.002); those having overnight behavioral health treatment in the prior 6 months had less comfort using website (OR (CI)=0.15 (0.03-0.69), P =.015). Predictors of follow-up depression (PHQ2>=3) were baseline depression (OR=6.24 (2.77, 14.09), P <.001); engagement in T4W/Juntos was associated with lower likelihood of depression (OR=.54 (.34,.86), P =.01). Website use during the month before follow-up was associated with post minus pre reduction in PHQ2 score (Beta (CI) = -.62 (-1.04, -0.20), P =.004). For GAD2>=3 at follow-up, the main predictor was baseline GAD2 (OR (CI) = 13.65 (6.06, 30.72), P <.001). Greater baseline website engagement predicted reduced hotline use (OR (CI)=.36 (.18,.71), P =.004). For use of behavioral health services prior to follow-up, the main predictor was services use prior to baseline, P <.001.
Ethnicity/language and COVID behavior changes were associated with website engagement; engagement and actual use predicted reduced follow-up depression and behavioral hotline use. Findings are based on a sample of participants recommended by community agencies with moderate follow-up rates, but significance of findings was similar in sensitivity analyses weighting for nonresponse. Findings may inform research and policy on public digital resources for mental health prevention.
Not applicable.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In utero exposure to the Great Depression is reflected in late-life epigenetic aging signatures.
Research on maternal-fetal epigenetic programming argues that adverse exposures to the intrauterine environment can have long-term effects on adult morbidity and mortality. However, causal research on epigenetic programming in humans at a population level is rare and is often unable to separate intrauterine effects from conditions in the postnatal period that may continue to impact child development. In this study, we used a quasi-natural experiment that leverages state-year variation in economic shocks during the Great Depression to examine the causal effect of environmental exposures in early life on late-life accelerated epigenetic aging for 832 participants in the US Health and Retirement Study (HRS). HRS is the first population-representative study to collect epigenome-wide DNA methylation data that has the sample size and geographic variation necessary to exploit quasi-random variation in state environments, which expands possibilities for causal research in epigenetics. Our findings suggest that exposure to changing economic conditions in the 1930s had lasting impacts on next-generation epigenetic aging signatures that were developed to predict mortality risk (GrimAge) and physiological decline (DunedinPoAm). We show that these effects are localized to the in utero period specifically as opposed to the preconception, postnatal, childhood, or early adolescent periods. After evaluating endogenous shifts in mortality and fertility related to Depression-era birth cohorts, we conclude that these effects likely represent lower bound estimates of the true impacts of the economic shock on long-term epigenetic aging.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Correlation Between Tinnitus Handicap and Depression and Anxiety Scores.
This study aimed to analyse the correlation between depression, anxiety, and tinnitus handicap in patients with primary tinnitus.
A total of 102 patients (41 men, 61 women; mean age ± SD: 56.8 ± 11.6 years) were examined. They completed the Tinnitus Handicap Inventory (THI), Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), and Symptom-Checklist-90-Revised (SCL-90-R). Correlations were analysed using Pearson's and Spearman's tests. Logistic regression analysis was performed.
The demographic data suggested a slight female predominance. The THI questionnaires indicated a worsening handicap in 73.5% of the patients, of which the 'mild' category was the most frequent, followed by severe handicaps. According to BDI, 69.6% of individuals fell in the normal category, with mild cases being the most frequent. Of the two psychiatric symptoms, depression (BDI) and tinnitus were strongly correlated (rho= 0.579, 
P
 < .0001*). The correlation was also significant according to the SCL-90-R depression questions (rho= 0.523, 
P
 < .0001*). Upon comparing the depressive scores and the THI subscores (i.e., functional, emotional, and catastrophic), each showed a significant correlation, with the strongest correlation with functional and emotional scores. The correlation with anxiety was slightly weaker (rho= 0.480, 
P
 < .0001*) but also significant. According to the Kaplan-Meier curves and logistic regression, the appearance of depressive symptoms did not significantly influence the appearance of a worsening handicap [
P
 = .428; OR: 1.124 (95% CI: 0.842-1.501)]. However, a worsening handicap significantly influenced the appearance of depressive symptoms [
P
 < .0001*; OR: 1.35 (95% CI: 1.34-4.86)], indicating that tinnitus has a more expressed effect on the appearance of depressive symptoms than reversed.
The correlation between tinnitus handicap and psychiatric comorbidities indicates the importance of psychological factors in tinnitus management. Tinnitus handicap has a more profound effect on depression scores. To avoid the occurrence of comorbidities, tinnitus handicaps must be reduced.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Caring for Carers (C4C): Results from a feasibility randomised controlled trial of positive written disclosure for older adult carers of people with psychosis.
Older adult carers of people who experience psychosis are at increased risk of developing physical and mental health problems due to the compounding factors of supporting their care-recipient and the health changes associated with ageing. Effective interventions exist but can be difficult to access and maintain prolonged engagement. Self-directed writing therapies, frequently referred to as Written Emotional Disclosure (WED), might be a suitable alternative intervention to improve the wellbeing of carers.
This study aimed to determine the feasibility (recruitment, retention and primary outcome completion) and acceptability of a specific WED intervention known as Positive Written Disclosure (PWD). Informal carers of people with psychosis were randomised to PWD, neutral writing or no writing. Quantitative outcomes including positive and negative affect, carer wellbeing, quality of life, depression, anxiety, stress, self-efficacy, leisure time satisfaction as well as health care utilisation were collected at baseline, 1-, 3-, and 6-month assessments. Qualitative feedback was also collected via questionnaire and semi-structured interviews from those randomised to either writing group.
We successfully met our progression criteria, recruiting to target and within timeframes whilst attaining 97% retention and 84% primary outcome data completed at 6 months. Carers randomised to the positive writing group described the intervention as enabling them to have a more positive attitude and focus on activities for themselves. Both writing groups described their tasks as providing distraction from caring responsibilities. However, some carers found the narrow positive emotion focus challenging.
PWD is a feasible and acceptable intervention for older adult carers of people with psychosis within a community setting. Further refinement of the writing protocol to include choice in type of emotion disclosed in addition to screening for some level of need may be required in future trials to reduce floor/ceiling effects of outcomes which may explain the lack of change observed.
Copyright: © 2022 Jones et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Clinical course and risk factors for sleep disturbance in patients with ischemic stroke.
Studies on insomnia in patients with ischemic stroke, particularly in the acute phase, are limited. The proportion of patients with sleep disturbance during the acute stroke period who are likely to develop insomnia in subacute and chronic stages of stroke is unknown. This study aimed to investigate the risk factors for sleep disturbance and the clinical course of the disease in patients with acute ischemic stroke.
This prospective observational study included patients diagnosed with ischemic stroke between July 1, 2020, and October 31, 2021. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5) for insomnia and the eight-item Athens Insomnia Scale (CAIS-8) were used to diagnose insomnia. Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) was applied to evaluate the mood of patients. Patient reported their sleeping conditions, before stroke onset and during the acute (within 7 days) and chronic (3 months after presentation) stroke periods.
In total, 195 patients with ischemic stroke were included in this study. Of these, 34.3% (67), 37.4% (73), and 29.7% (58) presented with sleep disturbance before stroke onset and during the acute and chronic stroke periods, respectively. Of the 128 patients without insomnia before stroke onset, 15.6% (20/128) presented with insomnia symptoms 3 months after stroke onset. Moreover, 13 (12.7%) of the 102 patients without sleep disturbance during the acute stroke period developed insomnia 3 months after stroke onset. Of the 67 patients with insomnia before stroke onset 29 (43.3%) did not develop the condition 3 months after stroke onset. A higher risk of sleep disturbance was associated with atrial fibrillation, hypertension, and mood disturbance in the acute stroke period, and a higher risk of insomnia was associated with low education and mood disturbance in the chronic stroke period.
The prevalence rates of sleep disturbance before and during the acute and chronic stroke periods were 34.3%, 37.4%, and 29.7%, respectively. The incidence of stroke-related insomnia was 15.6%. Patients with insomnia before stroke may recover after the stroke. Atrial fibrillation, hypertension, and mood disturbance were associated with a higher risk of sleep disturbance in the acute stroke period, whereas low education and mood disturbance were associated with insomnia in the chronic stroke period.
Copyright: © 2022 Tsai et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Psychosexual Impact on a Sample of Hispanic Women With Human Papillomavirus.
Our study investigates the psychosexual impact of human papillomavirus (HPV) diagnosis and its associated conditions on Hispanic women living in Puerto Rico.
A cross-sectional quantitative study was conducted on 205 women between 21 and 65 years old who received services at the Gynecology Clinics of the Medical Sciences Campus from April 2019 to December 2019. After obtaining approval from the institutional review board (March 27, 2019) and the informed consent of participants, participants completed a sociodemographic questionnaire and 4 psychological symptomatology-based questionnaires that measured levels of anxiety, depression, sexual satisfaction, and self-esteem.
Of the participants, 48.8% had a known diagnosis of HPV (n = 100) compared with 51.2% without a known HPV diagnosis (n = 105). A Mann-Whitney U test analysis for independent samples was used, which showed that patients with known HPV diagnoses had higher reported levels of anxiety in the Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale with a statistical significance of 0.03, as compared with patients without a known HPV diagnosis. There was no significant difference in reported levels of depressive symptoms, self-esteem, or sexual satisfaction between the groups.
Our findings show that in this group of Hispanic women living in Puerto Rico, being diagnosed with HPV and its associated conditions can be associated with higher anxiety symptoms. Further studies are warranted in this population to help improve their health outcomes and access to proper primary and preventive care.
Copyright © 2022, ASCCP.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
How Do Orthopaedic Providers Conceptualize Good Patient Outcomes and Their Barriers and Facilitators After Acute Injury? A Qualitative Study.
Good clinical outcomes in orthopaedics are largely dictated by the biomedical model, despite mounting evidence of the role of psychosocial factors. Understanding orthopaedic providers' conceptualizations of good clinical outcomes and what facilitates and hinders them may highlight critical barriers and opportunities for training providers on biopsychosocial models of care and integrating them into practice.
(1) How do orthopaedic trauma healthcare providers define good clinical outcomes for their patients after an acute orthopaedic injury? (2) What do providers perceive as barriers to good outcomes? (3) What do providers perceive as facilitators of good outcomes? For each question, we explored providers' responses in a biopsychosocial framework.
In this cross-sectional, qualitative study, we recruited 94 orthopaedic providers via an electronic screening survey from three Level I trauma centers in geographically diverse regions of the United States (rural southeastern, urban southwestern, and urban northeastern). This study was part of the first phase of a multisite trial testing the implementation of a behavioral intervention to prevent chronic pain after acute orthopaedic injury. Of the 94 participants who were recruited, 88 completed the screening questionnaire. Of the 88 who completed it, nine could not participate because of scheduling conflicts. Thus, the final sample included 79 participants: 48 surgeons (20 attendings, 28 residents; 6% [three of 48] were women, 94% [45 of 48] were between 25 and 55 years old, 73% [35 of 48] were White, and 2% [one of 48] were Hispanic) and 31 other orthopaedic professionals (10 nurse practitioners, registered nurses, and physician assistants; 13 medical assistants; five physical therapists and social workers; and three research fellows; 68% [21 of 31] were women, 97% [30 of 31] were between 25 and 55 years old, 71% [22 of 31] were White, and 39% [12 of 31] were Hispanic). Using a semistructured interview, our team of psychology researchers conducted focus groups, organized by provider type at each site, followed by individual exit interviews (5- to 10-minute debriefing conversations and opportunities to voice additional opinions one-on-one with a focus group facilitator). In each focus group, providers were asked to share their perceptions of what constitutes a "good outcome for your patients," what factors facilitate these outcomes, and what factors are barriers to achieving those outcomes. Focus groups were approximately 60 minutes long. A research assistant recorded field notes during the focus groups to summarize insights gained and disseminate findings to the broader research team. Using this procedure, we determined that thematic saturation was reached for all topics and no additional focus groups were necessary. Three independent coders identified the codes of good outcomes, outcome barriers, and outcome facilitators and applied this coding framework to all transcripts. Three separate data interpreters collaboratively extracted themes related to biomedical, psychological, and social factors and corresponding inductive subthemes.
Although orthopaedic providers' definitions of good outcomes naturally included biomedical factors (bone healing, functional independence, and pain alleviation), they were also marked by nuanced psychosocial factors, including the need for patients to recover from psychological trauma associated with injury and feel heard and understood-not just as outcome facilitators, but also as key outcomes themselves. Regarding perceived barriers to good outcomes, providers interwove psychological and biomedical factors (for example, "if they're a smoker, if they have depression, anxiety…") and discussed how psychological dysfunction (for example, maladaptive avoidance or fear of reinjury) can limit key behaviors during recovery (such as adherence to physical therapy regimens). Unprimed, providers also cited resiliency-related terms from psychological research, including (low) "self-efficacy," "catastrophic thinking," and (lack of) psychological "hardiness" as barriers. Regarding perceived facilitators of good outcomes, various social and socioeconomic factors emerged, including a biosocial connection between recovery, social support, and "privilege" (such as occupation or education). These perspectives emerged across sites and provider types.
Although the biomedical model prevails in clinical practice, providers across all sites, in various roles, defined good outcomes and their barriers and facilitators in terms of interconnected biopsychosocial factors without direct priming to do so. Thus, similar Level I trauma centers may be more ready to adopt biopsychosocial care approaches than initially expected.
Providers' perspectives in this study aligned with a growing body of research on the role of biomedical and psychosocial factors in surgical outcomes and risk of transition to chronic pain. To translate these affirming attitudes into practice, other Level I trauma centers could encourage leaders who adopt biopsychosocial approaches to share their perspectives and train other providers in biopsychosocial conceptualization and treatment.
Copyright © 2022 by the Association of Bone and Joint Surgeons.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Personalized Prediction of Response to Smartphone-Delivered Meditation Training: Randomized Controlled Trial.
Meditation apps have surged in popularity in recent years, with an increasing number of individuals turning to these apps to cope with stress, including during the COVID-19 pandemic. Meditation apps are the most commonly used mental health apps for depression and anxiety. However, little is known about who is well suited to these apps.
This study aimed to develop and test a data-driven algorithm to predict which individuals are most likely to benefit from app-based meditation training.
Using randomized controlled trial data comparing a 4-week meditation app (Healthy Minds Program [HMP]) with an assessment-only control condition in school system employees (n=662), we developed an algorithm to predict who is most likely to benefit from HMP. Baseline clinical and demographic characteristics were submitted to a machine learning model to develop a "Personalized Advantage Index" (PAI) reflecting an individual's expected reduction in distress (primary outcome) from HMP versus control.
A significant group × PAI interaction emerged (t
658
=3.30; P=.001), indicating that PAI scores moderated group differences in outcomes. A regression model that included repetitive negative thinking as the sole baseline predictor performed comparably well. Finally, we demonstrate the translation of a predictive model into personalized recommendations of expected benefit.
Overall, the results revealed the potential of a data-driven algorithm to inform which individuals are most likely to benefit from a meditation app. Such an algorithm could be used to objectively communicate expected benefits to individuals, allowing them to make more informed decisions about whether a meditation app is appropriate for them.
ClinicalTrials.gov NCT04426318; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04426318.
©Christian A Webb, Matthew J Hirshberg, Richard J Davidson, Simon B Goldberg. Originally published in the Journal of Medical Internet Research (https://www.jmir.org), 08.11.2022.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Role of unfolded protein response and ER-associated degradation under freezing, anoxia, and dehydration stresses in the freeze-tolerant wood frogs.
The North American amphibian, wood frogs, Rana sylvatica are the most studied anuran to comprehend vertebrate freeze tolerance. Multiple adaptations support their survival in frigid temperatures during winters, particularly their ability to produce glucose as natural cryoprotectant. Freezing and its component consequences (anoxia and dehydration) induce multiple stresses on cells. Among these is endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, a condition spawned by buildup of unfolded or misfolded proteins in the ER. The ER stress causes the unfolded protein response (UPR) and the ER-associated degradation (ERAD) pathway that potentially could lead to apoptosis. Immunoblotting was used to assess the responses of major proteins of the UPR and ERAD under freezing, anoxia, and dehydration stresses in the liver and skeletal muscle of the wood frogs. Targets analyzed included activating transcription factors (ATF3, ATF4, ATF6), the growth arrest and DNA damage proteins (GADD34, GADD153), and EDEM (ERAD enhancing α-mannosidase-like proteins) and XBP1 (X-box binding protein 1) proteins. UPR signaling was triggered under all three stresses (freezing, anoxia, dehydration) in liver and skeletal muscle of wood frogs with most tissue/stress responses consistent with an upregulation of the primary targets of all three UPR pathways (ATF4, ATF6, and XBP-1) to enhance the protein folding/refolding capacity under these stress conditions. Only frozen muscle showed preference for proteasomal degradation of misfolded proteins via upregulation of EDEM (ERAD). The ERAD response of liver was downregulated across three stresses suggesting preference for more refolding of misfolded/unfolded proteins. Overall, we conclude that wood frog organs activate the UPR as a means of stabilizing and repairing cellular proteins to best survive freezing exposures.
© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Cell Stress Society International.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Development of Posttraumatic Stress Disorder During Treatment of Depression With Lamotrigine.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Observational evidence in support of screening for depression during pregnancy and the postpartum period.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Letter to the Editor: Anxiety, Depression and Quality of Life in Patients with Neuroendocrine Neoplasia After Surgery.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[The new Maugeri diagnostic protocol for work-related stress and mobbing (MASD-2)].
Occupational stress can exceed the workers' individual capacity to adapt, and cause psychopathological conditions, including adjustment disorder (AD) and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), for which medico-legal reporting is mandatory by law. Since the early 2000s, an interdisciplinary diagnostic protocol has been in use at our Institute to address patients towards an appropriate therapeutic path, in order to promote their psychological well-being and work reintegration. In 2017, the protocol was updated and expanded. The current version (MaSD-2) includes: occupational medicine examination, psychological counselling, psychiatric interview, and psychodiagnostic testing: Short-Negative Acts Questionnaire (S-NAQ), Cognitive Behavioral Assessment 2.0 (CBA-2.0), SCID (Structured Clinical Interview for DSM: Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders), Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2-Restructured Form (MMPI-2-RF), Maugeri Stress Index - Reduced form (MASI-R). Between 2017 and 2019, we used the MaSD-2 to assess, for suspected psychopathological work-related problems, 198 patients (120 women and 78 men; mean age   SD: 47.9   9.0 years). Nine (4.5%), already examined with the original version of the protocol, received diagnostic confirmation (2 cases of paranoid personality disorder, 7 of work-related anxiety-depressive disorder). Of the other 189 subjects, three (1.6%) were not affected by psychiatric disease, 12 (6.3%) had a psychiatric disorder (e.g., anxiety disorder, mood disorder, personality disorder) independent of work, 160 (84.7%) a work-related anxiety and/or depressive disorder. DA was identified in 12 cases (6.3%), and two patients (1.1%) were diagnosed with DA in pre-existent DPTS, for a total of 14 medico-legal reports of occupational disease. Compared to the past, the case record presents a much higher percentage of psychiatric disorders related to occupational stress. This may be due to a greater sensitivity of the new diagnostic protocol, and to a better selection of the patients referred to us. Women and tertiary workers continue to be at greater risk, with significant involvement of health professionals. Diagnoses of DA and DPTS remain rare, confirming the need for a rigorous and cautious interdisciplinary approach, aimed at selecting the cases for which to start medico-legal procedures. Finally, the study calls for adequate preventive measures.
Copyright© by GIMLE.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Perceived Stress Associated Factors in Workers at a Public University.
To describe the predictors of perceived stress in a broad sample of workers at a Brazilian public university.
Cross-sectional study carried out with a convenience sample of workers at a public university in Brazil. To be included in the present study, the worker had to be an administrative technician. From March to August, 2017, workers were surveyed, and 929 participants answered the questionnaires of sociodemographic characterization, work and health conditions, perceived stress (Perceived Stress Scale), depression (Beck Depression Inventory), and anxiety (Beck Anxiety Inventory).
The multiple linear regression showed that higher perceived stress was associated with being younger and male, occupying a higher or technical position, and presenting higher levels of depression and anxiety.
These findings have implications for occupational health nurses and other health professionals to identify workers at risk for chronic and mental illness through predictors of perceived stress and to guide institutions in planning practical actions for stress management interventions.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Research Article: Association of antidepressant drug use with outcome of patients with glioblastoma.
Depressive symptoms are common among patients with glioblastoma, but patients are often not treated with antidepressants. There is only limited evidence on the association of antidepressant drug use with survival in glioblastoma. We performed a pooled analysis of patients treated within the CENTRIC, CORE, AVAglio and ACT-IV trials to explore the relation of antidepressant drug use with progression-free (PFS) and overall survival (OS) at baseline, at the start of maintenance therapy and at the start of maintenance cycle 4. We further assessed the association of antidepressant drugs with seizure, cognition, fatigue and a diagnosis of depression. Among more than 1,700 patients, we found no significant association between the use of antidepressants at baseline or at the start of maintenance therapy and PFS or OS. However, we found OS, but not PFS, to be significantly worse in patients using antidepressants at the start of maintenance cycle 4. After adjustment for antiepileptic drug use and despite showing a trend for increased risk, seizures were not significantly associated with antidepressant drug use, nor was there a change in mini mental state examination (MMSE) scores or fatigue by antidepressant drug use at baseline. However, there was a significant positive association between antidepressant use at the start of maintenance treatment and fatigue during maintenance treatment. The association of antidepressant use at the start of maintenance cycle 4 with inferior OS of glioblastoma patients requires independent confirmation and further study. Further prospective trials should evaluate efficacy, side effects and associations with outcome of antidepressants in glioblastoma. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cognitive complaints in older adults: relationships between self and informant report, objective test performance, and symptoms of depression.
This study explored the relationships between objective measures of cognitive functioning, self and informant reports of cognitive problems in daily life, and depression screening in older adults who had been referred because of reported or suspected cognitive changes. We used archival data from 100, predominantly White (97%), typically educated (
M
 = 13.25 years), older adults (
M
 = 70.38 years) who received an outpatient neuropsychological evaluation. We characterized the cognitive performance using the CVLT-II Total score. We characterized patient and collateral reports using the BRIEF-A MI index, a normed scale of cognitive problems in daily life. We also incorporated a depression screener (PHQ-9) into our analyses. Multiple linear regression analysis revealed that only the informant reported problems in daily life, using the BRIEF-A MI index, was a significant predictor of objective cognitive deficits, as defined by CVLT-II Total scores. Self BRIEF-A MI index scores were not significant predictors of CVLT-II Total performance after we accounted for depression using the patient's PHQ-9 score. Additionally, elevated depression widened the discrepancy between raters, with elevated depression associated with worsening sself-report scores compared to informant-reported scores. As informant-reported problems were the strongest predictor of cognitive deficits, we recommend routine collection of collateral informant reports in the neuropsychological evaluation of older adults referred for cognitive concerns. We also recommend incorporating self-ratings of daily life functioning and screening for depression to contextualize patient complaints and address their concerns, even in the absence of objective cognitive dysfunction.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Effects of replay and rehearsal expressive writing on mental health: a randomized controlled trial.
Background:
 Expressive writing about previous interactions has been found to improve mental health, but the effect of expressive writing about future imagined interactions has not been explored.
Methods:
 To examine the effects of rehearsal expressive writing on mental health, we recruited 132 people, and 100 (76%) completed writing tasks (31 control, 34 replay, and 35 rehearsal). Each group was measured at baseline, after the 4th consecutive day of 15-minute-per-day writing, and at 1-month follow-up. Measures included psychological adjustment (Mental Health Inventory-18, MHI), self-perceived stress, PROMIS depression and anxiety, work and social adjustment, loneliness, coping (Brief COPE), and daily writing expressiveness. Repeated measures ANOVA examined time and time-by-group effects.
Results:
 Significant time effects were found for MHI, self-perceived stress, depression and anxiety symptoms, and self-blame. Marginally significant group-by-time effects on behavioural disengagement and venting, subscales of the coping measure, were found, with rehearsal associated with decreased disengagement and increased venting compared to the replay group. The rehearsal group consistently reported significantly higher perceived writing expressiveness than the other groups over time. Rehearsal and replay expressive writing showed different effects on writing expressiveness and coping via behavioural disengagement and venting.
Conclusion:
 This study established rehearsal as a promising extension to the affordable therapeutic expressive writing paradigm.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The effectiveness of activity pacing interventions for people with chronic fatigue syndrome: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
To investigate whether activity pacing interventions (alone or in conjunction with other evidence-based interventions) improve fatigue, physical function, psychological distress, depression, and anxiety in people with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS).
Seven databases were searched until 13 August 2022 for randomised controlled trials that included activity pacing interventions for CFS and a validated measure of fatigue. Secondary outcomes were physical function, psychological distress, depression, and anxiety. Two reviewers independently screened studies by title, abstract and full text. Methodological quality was evaluated using the PEDro scale. Random-effects meta-analyses were performed in R.
6390 articles were screened, with 14 included. Good overall study quality was supported by PEDro scale ratings. Activity pacing interventions were effective (Hedges' 
g
 (95% CI)) at reducing fatigue (-0.52 (-0.73 to -0.32)), psychological distress (-0.37 (-0.51 to -0.24)) and depression (-0.29 (-0.49 to -0.09)) and improving physical function (mean difference 7.18 (3.17-11.18)) when compared to no treatment/usual care. The extent of improvement was greater for interventions that encouraged graded escalation of physical activities and cognitive activities.
Activity pacing interventions are effective in reducing fatigue and psychological distress and improving physical function in CFS, particularly when people are encouraged to gradually increase activities.
PROSPERO CRD42016036087. IMPLICATIONS FOR REHABILITATIONA key feature of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is a prolonged post-exertional exacerbation of symptoms following physical activities or cognitive activities.Activity pacing is a common strategy often embedded in multi-component management programs for CFS.Activity pacing interventions are effective in reducing fatigue and psychological distress and improving physical function in CFS, particularly when patients are encouraged to gradually increase their activities.Healthcare professionals embedding activity pacing as part of treatment should work collaboratively with patients to ensure successful, individualised self-management strategies.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Child care and family processes: Bi-directional relations between child care quality, home environments, and maternal depression.
The current study examined whether within-family changes in child care quality and quantity predicted subsequent changes in home environment quality and maternal depression across early childhood (6 to 54 months of age). Data were drawn from the NICHD Study of Early Child Care and Youth Development (n = 1239; 77% White; 48% female; data collection from 1991 to 1996), and were analyzed using Random Intercept Cross-Lagged Panel Models. Within-family increases in child care quality predicted modest increases in home environment quality (β = .13-.17). These effects were most robust from child age 6 to 15 months. Increases in child care quality produced small, statistically non-significant, reductions in depression. Time-specific increases in child care quantity were not consistently predictive of either outcome.
© 2022 The Authors. Child Development © 2022 Society for Research in Child Development.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Psychosocial Occupational Exposures and Mental Illness–a Systematic Review With Meta-Analyses.
The purpose of this study is to investigate the exposure-risk relationship between psychosocial occupational stress and mental illness.
We conducted a systematic review with meta-analyses as an update of a systematic review published in 2014. The study protocol was registered in PROSPERO (CRD42020170032). Literature searches were carried out in the MEDLINE, PsycINFO, and Embase databases. All procedural steps were performed independently by two reviewers; discordances were solved by consensus. All of the included full texts were subject to a methodological appraisal. Certainty of evidence was determined with the GRADE procedure.
The pooled risk of depression was found to be approximately doubled in workers exposed to high job strain, which is defined as high work demands combined with low job control (effect estimate [EE] = 1.99, 95% CI [1.68; 2.35], heterogeneity [I2] = 24.7%, n = 8). In particular, high work demands are associated with incident depression (ES = 13.8 [1.19; 1.61], I2 = 69.0%, n = 9) and with incident anxiety disorder (ES = 1.79 [1.44; 2.23], I2 = 48.1%, n = 5). There were only a small number of methodologically adequate studies available on burnout, somatoform disorders, suicidal ideation, and suicide. Thus, no pooled risk estimates were calculated, although some individual studies showed a considerably increased risk.
Psychosocial occupational stress is clearly associated with depression and anxiety disorders.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Maternal-prenatal stress and depression predict infant temperament during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Researchers have begun to examine the psychological toll of the ongoing global COVID-19 pandemic. Data are now emerging indicating that there may be long-term adverse effects of the pandemic on new mothers and on children born during this period. In a longitudinal study of maternal mental health and child emotional development during the pandemic, we conducted online assessments of a cohort of women at two time points: when they were pregnant at the beginning of the surge of the pandemic in the United States (baseline, 
N
 = 725), and approximately 1 year postpartum (follow-up, 
N
 = 296), examining prenatal and postnatal maternal mental health, prenatal pandemic-related stress, and infant temperament. Pandemic-related stress at baseline was associated with concurrent depressive symptoms and infant negative affect at follow-up. Baseline maternal depressive symptoms were associated with follow-up depressive symptoms, which in turn were also associated with infant negative affect. Pandemic-related stress during pregnancy may have enduring effects on infant temperament. These findings have important implications for our understanding of the emotional development of children who were 
in utero
 during the COVID-19 pandemic.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Older Adults and Social Isolation and Loneliness During the COVID-19 Pandemic: An Integrated Review of Patterns, Effects, and Interventions.
A scoping review was conducted to identify patterns, effects, and interventions to address social isolation and loneliness among community-dwelling older adult populations during the COVID-19 pandemic. We also integrated (1) data from the Canadian Longitudinal Study on Aging (CLSA) and (2) a scan of Canadian grey literature on pandemic interventions. CLSA data showed estimated relative increases in loneliness ranging between 33 and 67 per cent depending on age/gender group. International studies also reported increases in levels of loneliness, as well as strong associations between loneliness and depression during the pandemic. Literature has primarily emphasized the use of technology-based interventions to reduce social isolation and loneliness. Application of socio-ecological and resilience frameworks suggests that researchers should focus on exploring the wider array of potential pandemic age-friendly interventions (e.g., outdoor activities, intergenerational programs, and other outreach approaches) and strength-based approaches (e.g., building community and system-level capacity) that may be useful for reducing social isolation and loneliness.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A new, brief measure of college students' academic stressors.
Objective:
 The purpose of this study was to evaluate the psychometric properties of a new measure of academic stressors (the ASM) in college students. 
Participants:
 The ASM was given to 677 undergraduate students at three universities along with measures of anxiety/depression, Big Five personality traits, and study skills. 
Methods:
 Tests of factorability and an exploratory factor analysis were completed. The internal and test-retest reliability of the measure was also evaluated. 
Results:
 The ASM is a concise, valid, and reliable tool for assessing college students' academic stressors. 
Conclusions:
 ASM scores predicted anxiety and depression symptoms. Therefore, the ASM can be used by colleges and university to assess students' levels of academic stressors to identify meaningful resources for support.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Neuropsychological Performance and Functional Capacity Following Mild Traumatic Brain Injury in Veterans.
To examine the relationship between neuropsychological functioning and performance-based functional capacity in veterans with a history of mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI), as well as the moderating effects of age and psychiatric symptoms on this relationship.
Three Veterans Affairs medical centers.
One hundred nineteen Iraq/Afghanistan veterans with a history of mTBI and self-reported cognitive difficulties.
Cross-sectional, secondary data analysis of baseline measures in a randomized controlled trial.
The main outcome measure, functional capacity, was assessed using the objective and performance-based University of California San Diego Performance-based Skills Assessment-Brief. A global deficit score (GDS) was created as a composite score for performance on a battery of neuropsychological measures assessing domains of attention, processing speed, executive functioning, and verbal memory performance. Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptom severity was assessed using the PTSD Checklist-Military Version, and depressive symptom severity was assessed using the Beck Depression Inventory, Second Edition.
Bivariate analyses indicated that worse neuropsychological performance (ie, higher GDS) and greater PTSD symptom severity were associated with worse communication abilities and worse overall functional capacity. Multiple linear regressions demonstrated that GDS and PTSD symptom severity explained 9% of the variance in communication and 10% of the variance in overall functional capacity; however, GDS emerged as the only significant predictor in both regressions. Age, PTSD, and depressive symptom severity did not moderate the relationship between GDS and overall functional capacity. Performance in the verbal learning and memory domain emerged as the strongest neuropsychological predictor of communication and overall functional capacity.
Worse neuropsychological functioning was moderately associated with worse performance-based functional capacity, even when accounting for PTSD symptom severity. Verbal learning and memory was the primary neuropsychological domain driving the relationship with functional capacity; improvement in verbal learning and memory may translate into improved functional capacity.
Copyright © 2021 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mood phenotypes in rodent models with circadian disturbances.
Many physiological functions with approximately 24-h rhythmicity (circadian rhythms) are generated by an internal time-measuring system of the circadian clock. While sleep/wake cycles, feeding patterns, and body temperature are the most widely known physiological functions under the regulation of the circadian clock, physiological regulation by the circadian clock extends to higher brain functions. Accumulating evidence suggests strong associations between the circadian clock and mood disorders such as depression, but the underlying mechanisms of the functional relationship between them are obscure. This review overviews rodent models with disrupted circadian rhythms on depression-related responses. The animal models with circadian disturbances (by clock gene mutations and artifactual interventions) will help understand the causal link between the circadian clock and depression.
© 2022 Published by Elsevier Inc.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A Rare Case of MRSA Pericarditis with Expanding, Purulent Pericardial Effusion Leading to Uremic Kidney Failure from a Right, Necrotic Toe.
Purulent pericarditis is an extremely rare entity with only a few reported cases so far. This condition deserves prompt diagnosis because of its significant mortality rate if left untreated. A 76-year-old man with a past medical history of coronary artery disease (CAD) with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) to the left anterior descending artery (LAD) and right circumflex artery (RCA), ischemic cardiomyopathy with moderately reduced ejection fraction (EF 45-50%), peripheral artery disease (PAD), COVID-19 pneumonia complicated by fibrotic lung disease (on 3 liters of home oxygen), type-2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), hypertension (HTN), hyperlipidemia (HLD), and chronic kidney disease (CKD) stage III presented with complaints of pleuritic chest pain and shortness of breath. On hospital day 1, he was afebrile and hemodynamically stable with physical exam remarkable for bibasilar crackles and dry gangrene of his right first toe. He developed progressive altered mental status, hypotension, oliguric renal failure, and respiratory distress on hospital day 6. On exam at this time, he had an elevated jugular venous distension (JVD) of 12-14 cm water, pericardial friction rub with decreased heart sounds, and orthopnea; all were consistent with cardiac tamponade clinically. An electrocardiogram (EKG) showed new ST elevations in leads I, II, and aVL with ST depression in aVR and V1 with only mild elevation in troponin I to 0.07 ng/mL. A transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) was done on hospital day 7 and showed a moderate sized pericardial effusion with inferior vena cava (IVC) enlargement but no atrial collapse, ventricular collapse, IVC collapse, or respiratory variation in the mitral and tricuspid inflow velocities. Blood cultures grew methicillin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus
 (MRSA) on hospital day 6, and he was started on intravenous (IV) vancomycin. The differential diagnosis for his enlarging pericardial effusion included purulent pericarditis, uremic pericarditis, or hemorrhagic effusion. He had urgent diagnostic and therapeutic pericardiocentesis with removal of 350 milliliters of fluid. The pericardial fluid was cloudy, tan-brown with a gram stain showing gram-positive cocci in clusters and cultures growing MRSA, which confirmed the diagnosis of purulent pericarditis secondary to MRSA infection. After the pericardiocentesis, his blood pressure, respiratory distress, and renal failure improved. The source of the bacteremia was from osteomyelitis of his gangrenous, right toe with bone biopsy growing both MRSA and 
Streptococcus anginosus
. He underwent toe amputation for definitive source control. He was discharged on hospital day 24 with a plan to complete 6 weeks of IV vancomycin.
Copyright © 2022 Justin Brilliant et al.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
KXS Balances the Tryptophan Metabolism in Mild to Moderate Depressed Patients and Chronic Restraint Stress Induced Depressive Rats.
Tryptophan metabolism is involved in the etiology and exacerbation of depressive disorders. Kai-Xin-San (KXS), a traditional Chinese medicine formula, has been widely used to treat depression and modulate serotonin simultaneously, but how it regulates depressive-like behavior by shifting the balance of the tryptophan-serotonin metabolism and kynurenine pathway remains vague.
Ten participants with mild to moderate depression treated with KXS (KXS preparation) were analyzed in this study. Depression rating scale score and the concentration of serum tryptophan, 5-hydroxytryptophan and kynurenine was measured at baseline and the endpoint of KXS treatment. To explore the specific regulatory mechanism of KXS in tryptophan metabolism, the chronic restraint stress (CRS) was used to induce depressive-like syndrome in rats and the hippocampus level of tryptophan, 5-hydroxytryptophan, kynurenine with downstream metabolites (kynurenic acid, quinolinic acid) and key enzymes (indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase, kynurenine 3-monooxygenase, kynurenine aminotransferase) were analyzed by liquid chromatography-electros pray ionization tandem mass spectrometry, high performance liquid chromatography and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay respectively.
KXS significantly decreased depression rating scale scores and increased the serum tryptophan and kynurenine concentration in depressive patients compared to baseline. Also, it alleviated the depressive behavior in CRS rats obviously. Comparing with CRS group, KXS increased tryptophan, 5-hydroxytryptophan, kynurenine level in rat hippocampus. Furthermore, in kynurenine pathway, KXS decreased the expression of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase, increased kynurenic acid by upregulating the expression of kynurenine aminotransferase while decreased quinolinic acid level in hippocampus, which suggested that KXS more favored improving serotonin pathway, and neuroprotective kynurenic acid branch in the tryptophan metabolism.
This is the first tryptophan metabolomic study of patients with depression undergoing KXS treatment. Combining these clinical results with CRS induced rat model studies, it verified that KXS achieves an excellent antidepressant effect and balances tryptophan-kynurenine metabolic pathways by regulating some key metabolic products and enzymes.
© 2022 Wang et al.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Analyzing protective factors for adolescents' mental health during COVID-19 pandemic in Spain: A longitudinal study.
This study examined the protective role of self-esteem and perceived emotional intelligence on mental health problems in Spanish adolescents during COVID-19 pandemic.
Participants (
N
 = 139; 
M
age = 13.83 years, 
SD
 = 0.96; 63.8% female) completed measures before the outbreak of COVID-19 (T1) and during the first wave of the pandemic in Spain (T2).
Participants self-reported emotional intelligence, self-esteem, mental health problems and suicidal behavior.
Adolescent mental health problems were equally affected by COVID-19 pandemic according to gender, age and lockdown conditions. Adolescents with low levels of emotional intelligence and self-esteem at T1 showed a significant decrease in self-reported anxiety, depression, stress and suicidal behavior at T2. However, adolescents with average or high levels of emotional intelligence and self-esteem at T1 showed no significant changes in mental health problems at T2. Self-esteem at T1 meditated the relationships between emotional intelligence at T1 (clarity and repair) and emotional symptoms at T2 (depression, anxiety and stress). Furthermore, the relationship between self-esteem and anxiety symptoms was moderated by the number of people living together during COVID-19 lockdown.
Our findings highlight the protective role of pre-pandemic development of self-esteem and emotional intelligence in mitigating the impact of COVID-19 outbreak on adolescent mental health during the pandemic.
© 2022 The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Within-day bidirectional associations between physical activity and affect: A real-time ambulatory study in persons with and without depressive and anxiety disorders.
Ambulatory assessments offer opportunities to study physical activity level (PAL) and affect at the group and person-level. We examined bidirectional associations between PAL and affect in a 3-h timeframe and evaluated whether associations differ between people with and without current or remitted depression/anxiety.
Two-week ecological momentary assessment (EMA) and actigraphy data of 359 participants with current (n = 93), remitted (n = 176), or no (n = 90) Composite International Diagnostic Interview depression/anxiety diagnoses were obtained from the Netherlands Study of Depression and Anxiety. Positive affect (PA) and negative affect (NA) were assessed by EMA 5 times per day. Average PAL between EMA assessments were calculated from actigraphy data.
At the group-level, higher PAL was associated with subsequent higher PA (b = 0.109, p < .001) and lower NA (b = -0.043, p < .001), while higher PA (b = 0.066, p < .001) and lower NA (b = -0.053, p < .001) were associated with subsequent higher PAL. The association between higher PAL and subsequent lower NA was stronger for current depression/anxiety patients than controls (p = .01). At the person-level, analyses revealed heterogeneity in bidirectional associations.
Higher PAL may improve affect, especially among depression/anxiety patients. As the relationships vary at the person-level, ambulatory assessments may help identify who would benefit from behavioral interventions.
© 2022 The Authors. Depression and Anxiety published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Presence of Night Pain, Neuropathic Pain, or Depressive Disorder Does Not Adversely Affect Outcomes After Total Knee Arthroplasty: A Prospective Cohort Study.
A considerable proportion of patients warranting total knee arthroplasty (TKA) have night pain, neuropathic pain, and/or depressive disorder, which may not be resolved by TKA. This prospective, longitudinal cohort study aimed to document the prevalence of night pain, neuropathic pain, and depressive disorder in patients with advanced knee osteoarthritis undergoing TKA and to determine whether the specific coexisting pain and/or disorder at the time of TKA adversely affected postoperative outcomes.
In this study, 148 patients undergoing TKA were longitudinally evaluated. The presence of night pain, neuropathic pain (determined using Douleur Neuropathique 4 [DN4]) and depressive disorder (determined using the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 [PHQ-9]) was determined before and 6 weeks, 3 months and 1 year after TKA. In addition, Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) and EuroQol-5 Dimension (EQ-5D) scores were assessed before and 1 year after TKA. Potential associations of night pain, neuropathic pain, and/or depressive disorder with pre- and postoperative WOMAC and EQ-5D scores were examined in subgroup analyses.
Preoperatively, 72% (n = 106) of patients reported night pain, and the prevalences of neuropathic pain and depressive disorder were 15% and 17%, respectively. Preoperatively, compared with patients without night pain, those with night pain had significantly poorer preoperative WOMAC scores, but no significant difference was seen between groups 1 year after TKA. Preoperatively, the WOMAC, EQ-5D, and EQ-5D health scores of patients with neuropathic pain were not significantly different from those of patients without neuropathic pain, and there was no difference in clinical outcome scores 1 year after TKA between these groups. Preoperatively, the patients with depressive disorder showed significantly poorer preoperative WOMAC, EQ-5D, and EQ-5D health scores than those without depressive disorder, but no significant differences in scores were observed 1 year after TKA between these groups.
This study revealed a considerable prevalence of night pain, neuropathic pain, and depressive disorder in patients undergoing TKA and that patients with these specific conditions reported poorer functional and quality of life scores preoperatively. However, such adverse effects disappeared after TKA. Our study findings suggest that TKA can provide satisfactory outcomes for patients with these specific conditions.
© 2022 The Korean Academy of Medical Sciences.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Achieving Quality Integrated Care for Adolescent Depression: A Scoping Review.
While primary care is often the first point of contact for adolescents with depression, more than half of depressed adolescents are either untreated or undertreated. A scoping review had been completed to summarize approaches for achieving quality integrated care in primary care focused on adolescent depression.
The scoping review followed the methodological framework for scoping studies from Arksey and O'Malley. Articles were grouped into themes and mapped to 6 quality domains for integrated care from the practice integration profile survey and 3 levels of stakeholders based on WHO's definition for health systems (patient/family, primary care team, and national/sub-national health system).
A total of 868 records were screened resulting in 22 articles at the patient/family-level (5/22), the primary care team-level (18/22), and the national/sub-national health system-level (16/22). The results highlighted multilevel approaches to support the delivery of quality integrated care for adolescent depression in primary care: (1) population-focused using patient registries, routine screening based on standardized algorithms, and patient-centered strategies, (2) team-driven where primary care clinicians collaborate with mental health clinicians as part of a primary care team, (3) evidence-based delivery of mental health services across the integrated care pathway from screening to follow-up visits, and (4) measurement-guided by leveraging the electronic health record infrastructure to learn from patient outcomes.
More research is needed on how to provide quality integrated care for adolescent depression, specifically on patient engagement and retention, grounded in the frontline experiences of patients, families, and clinicians and supported by national and/or sub-national guidelines. A learning system could help integrate mental health services in primary care in a way that is consistent across the national and/or sub-national health system.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Factors Associated With Depression and Anxiety for Community-Dwelling Patients With Heart Failure: A Retrospective Cohort Study.
Depression and anxiety are common comorbidities in heart failure (HF) and are associated with adverse outcomes including unplanned hospitalization. However, there is insufficient evidence on the factors associated with depression and anxiety for community patients with HF to inform optimal assessment and treatment in this population.
The aim of this study was to examine the prevalence of and factors associated with depression and anxiety in community-dwelling patients with HF.
A retrospective cohort study of 302 adult patients given a diagnosis of HF referred to United Kingdom's largest specialist cardiac rehabilitation center, from June 2013 to November 2020. Main study outcomes were symptoms of depression using Patient Health Questionnaire-9 and anxiety using the General Anxiety Disorder 7-item scale. Explanatory variables included demographic and clinical characteristics and functional status from the Dartmouth COOP questionnaire: quality of life, pain, level of social activity and daily activities, and being bothered by emotional problems (feelings). Logistic regressions were performed to evaluate the association between demographic and clinical characteristics and depression and anxiety.
Of the sample, 26.2% reported depression and 20.2% had anxiety. Higher depression and anxiety were associated with difficulty in performing daily activities (95% confidence interval, 1.11-6.46 and 1.13-8.09, respectively) and being bothered by feelings (95% confidence interval, 4.06-21.77 and 4.25-22.46, respectively). Depression was associated with limitations in social activity (95% confidence interval, 1.06-6.34) and anxiety with distressing pain (95% confidence interval, 1.38-7.23).
Findings indicate the importance of psychosocial interventions for patients with HF to minimize and manage depression and anxiety. Patients with HF may benefit from interventions targeted to maintain independence, promote participation in social activities, and optimally manage pain.
Copyright © 2022 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Parental conditional regard: A meta-analysis.
Parental conditional regard involves parents giving or withdrawing affection and approval, depending on children's and adolescents' compliance with parental expectations, to shape behaviors and traits. Research grounded in self-determination theory suggests parental conditional regard harms psychological development. Using self-determination theory as a theoretical foundation for investigating outcomes associated with parental conditional regard, the present study consolidated meta-analytic associations between parental conditional regard and four theoretically important individual difference correlates: introjected self-regulation, contingent self-esteem, depressive symptoms, and relatedness.
Following PRISMA guidelines, a systematic literature search was conducted using the PsycINFO, ProQuest, and EBSCO databases for English-language, peer-reviewed published studies and unpublished studies. Eligible studies reported an association between parental conditional regard and the four theoretically derived correlates or another correlate of interest in pre-adolescent children, adolescents, or young adults. The results were based on a random-effects model for meta-analyses and the Q statistic for moderator analyses.
Across 31 samples in total, greater parental conditional regard was significantly associated with more introjected regulation (r = .33), contingent self-esteem (r = .29), and level of depressive symptoms (r = .22); and less relatedness (r = -.24). Moderator results for parental conditional regard type found parental conditional regard's association with introjected regulation was significantly stronger for studies measuring giving regard (parental conditional positive regard) than withdrawing regard (parental conditional negative regard). The association of parental conditional regard with depressive symptoms was significantly stronger for studies measuring parental conditional negative regard than parental conditional positive regard.
The meta-analytic results provide theoretical and empirical support for the connections between self-determination and the impact of parental conditional regard.
© 2022 The Authors. Journal of Adolescence published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Foundation for Professionals in Services to Adolescents.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Religious affiliation protects against alcohol/substance use initiation: A prospective study among healthy adolescents.
A substantial volume of the literature suggests that religious factors buffer against alcohol/substance use among adults, but research among adolescents is sparse. Further, few studies in this area have been prospective, and therefore it is unclear how religion may impact less alcohol/substance use among adolescents.
We prospectively evaluated effects of religious affiliation on initiation of alcohol/substance use in a sample of 81 psychiatrically healthy 13-14-year-olds from New England, over a 3-year period (from November 2015 to January 2019). Known risk factors were also evaluated including anxiety, depression, and impulsivity; family history of mental illness and alcohol/substance misuse; and volume of brain regions implicated in adolescent alcohol/substance misuse (assessed by Magnetic Resonance Imaging).
Religiously affiliated adolescents were significantly less likely to initiate use of alcohol/substances (hazard ratio [HR] = 0.38). The addition of family history of alcohol/substance misuse to the model increased the predictive value of religious affiliation (HR = 0.34). Other risk factors did not diminish nor increase observed effects.
These findings support and extend the current research by suggesting that religious affiliation protects against initiation of alcohol/substance use during early adolescence, particularly in individuals with elevated risk.
© 2022 The Foundation for Professionals in Services for Adolescents.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Excess resource use and costs of physical comorbidities in individuals with mental health disorders: A systematic literature review and meta-analysis.
Individuals with mental health disorders (MHDs) have worse physical health than the general population, utilise healthcare resources more frequently and intensively, incurring higher costs. We provide a first comprehensive overview and quantitative synthesis of literature on the magnitude of excess resource use and costs for those with MHDs and comorbid physical health conditions (PHCs). This systematic review (PROSPERO CRD42017075319) searched studies comparing resource use or costs of individuals with MHDs and comorbid PHCs versus individuals without comorbid conditions published between 2007 and 2021. We conducted narrative and quantitative syntheses, using random-effects meta-analyses to explore ranges of excess resource use and costs across care segments, comparing to MHD only, PHC only, or general population controls (GPC). Of 20,075 records, 228 and 100 were eligible for narrative and quantitative syntheses, respectively. Most studies were from the US, covered depression or schizophrenia, reporting endocrine/metabolic or circulatory comorbidities. Frequently investigated healthcare segments were inpatient, outpatient, emergency care and medications. Evidence on lost productivity, long-term and informal care was rare. Substantial differences exist between MHDs, with depressive disorder tending towards lower average excess resource use and cost estimates, while excess resource use ranges between +6% to +320% and excess costs between +14% to +614%. PHCs are major drivers of resource use and costs for individuals with MHDs, affecting care segments differently. Significant physical health gains and cost savings are potentially achievable through prevention, earlier identification, management and treatment, using more integrated care approaches. Current international evidence, however, is heterogeneous with limited geographical representativeness and comparability.
Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Antidepressant discontinuation syndrome: A state-of-the-art clinical review.
Antidepressant drugs are prescribed to patients with depressive, anxiety disorders, and other conditions. Evidence about antidepressant discontinuation syndrome (ADS) and related outcomes is sparse, although potentially burdensome in some patients. The present state-of-the-art review aims to appraise the most current evidence about ADS critically. ADS has been documented for most antidepressant drugs, although most literature focuses on selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors prescribed for depression. While down-titration cannot exclude the chance of ADS, it is nonetheless warranted in the clinical setting, especially for short half-life and sedative compounds such as paroxetine. Integrative management with concurrent pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy may minimize the eventual unpleasant effects arising within the discontinuation process. In addition, patient-tailored interventions and education should be part of the discontinuation strategy. Future research must rely on broadly accepted definitions for ADS and related phenomena such as antidepressant withdrawal and shed further light on the underpinning neurobiology. Discriminating between ADS-related phenomena and relapse of depression is likewise warranted, along with a neuroscience-based nomenclature instead of a class one.
Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. and ECNP. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Body image and depression in endometriosis: Examining self-esteem and rumination as mediators.
Endometriosis is a chronic systemic disease affecting 1 in 10 people assigned female at birth, that can result in appearance-based and functional bodily changes which can negatively impact body image. Empirical evidence supports the body dissatisfaction-driven hypothesis that negative body image leads to greater depressive symptoms; but potential underlying mechanisms are under-researched. This prospective study investigated the mediating role of two theoretically-derived intervening factors, self-esteem and rumination, in individuals living with endometriosis who typically report high rates of body image concerns and depressive symptoms. Initially, 996 participants completed the first online survey (T0) assessing demographic, medical and psychological factors. Of these, 451 completed surveys at 1-month (T1) and 2-months (T2) follow-up assessing self-esteem, rumination and depression. Bootstrapped analyses with full-information maximum likelihood estimation indicated that poor body image (T0) predicted greater depressive symptoms over time (T2). Self-esteem (T1), but not rumination (T1), mediated the body image-depression relationship. These results provide support for the body dissatisfaction-driven hypothesis and further identify that self-esteem is a key meditating factor. This highlights the importance of addressing self-esteem in body image focused interventions.
Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Global child and adolescent mental health perspectives: bringing change locally, while thinking globally.
Child and adolescent mental health (CAMH) are a global priority. Different countries across the globe face unique challenges in CAMH services that are specific to them. However, there are multiple issues that are also similar across countries. These issues have been presented in this commentary from the lens of early career CAMH professionals who are alumni of the Donald J Cohen Fellowship program of the IACAPAP. We also present recommendations that can be implemented locally, namely, how promoting mental health and development of children and adolescents can result in better awareness and interventions, the need to improve quality of care and access to care, use of technology to advance research and practices in CAMH, and how investing in research can secure and support CAMH professionals and benefit children and adolescents across the globe. As we continue to navigate significant uncertainty due to dynamic circumstances globally, bolstering collaborations by "bringing change locally, while thinking globally" are invaluable to advancing global CAMH research, clinical service provision, and advancement of the field.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Denisovan and Neanderthal archaic introgression differentially impacted the genetics of complex traits in modern populations.
Introgression from extinct Neanderthal and Denisovan human species has been shown to contribute to the genetic pool of modern human populations and their phenotypic spectrum. Evidence of how Neanderthal introgression shaped the genetics of human traits and diseases has been extensively studied in populations of European descent, with signatures of admixture reported for instance in genes associated with pigmentation, immunity, and metabolic traits. However, limited information is currently available about the impact of archaic introgression on other ancestry groups. Additionally, to date, no study has been conducted with respect to the impact of Denisovan introgression on the health and disease of modern populations. Here, we compare the way evolutionary pressures shaped the genetics of complex traits in East Asian and European populations, and provide evidence of the impact of Denisovan introgression on the health of East Asian and Central/South Asian populations.
Leveraging genome-wide association statistics from the Biobank Japan and UK Biobank, we assessed whether Denisovan and Neanderthal introgression together with other evolutionary genomic signatures were enriched for the heritability of physiological and pathological conditions in populations of East Asian and European descent. In EAS, Denisovan-introgressed loci were enriched for coronary artery disease heritability (1.69-fold enrichment, p=0.003). No enrichment for archaic introgression was observed in EUR. We also performed a phenome-wide association study of Denisovan and Neanderthal alleles in six ancestry groups available in the UK Biobank. In EAS, the Denisovan-introgressed SNP rs62391664 in the major histocompatibility complex region was associated with albumin/globulin ratio (beta=-0.17, p=3.57×10
-7
). Neanderthal-introgressed alleles were associated with psychiatric and cognitive traits in EAS (e.g., "No Bipolar or Depression"-rs79043717 beta=-1.5, p=1.1×10
-7
), and with blood biomarkers (e.g., alkaline phosphatase-rs11244089 beta=0.1, p=3.69×10
-116
) and red hair color (rs60733936 beta=-0.86, p=4.49×10
-165
) in EUR. In the other ancestry groups, Neanderthal alleles were associated with several traits, also including the use of certain medications (e.g., Central/South East Asia: indapamide - rs732632 beta=-2.38, p=5.22×10
-7
).
Our study provides novel evidence regarding the impact of archaic introgression on the genetics of complex traits in worldwide populations, highlighting the specific contribution of Denisovan introgression in EAS populations.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Associations of five obesity indicators with cognitive performance in 30,697 Taiwan Biobank participants.
Obesity adversely influences the central nervous system and cognitive functions. However, the relationship between various obesity indicators and cognitive performance remains controversial. It is unclear which obesity indicator is more relevant to cognitive impairment.
The Taiwan Biobank (TWB) administered the Chinese version of the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) to 30,697 participants (12,094 males and 18,603 females) aged 60 to 70 years. A total of 3,454 (11.25%) individuals with MMSE < = 24 were classified as having poor cognitive performance. This cross-sectional study investigates the associations of five obesity indicators with cognitive performance. Five separate logistic regression models were fitted for males and another five for females. Covariates adjusted in all models included age, smoking status, drinking status, regular exercise, chronic disease status (diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, heart diseases, stroke, or Parkinson's disease), depression status, blood pressure level, total cholesterol, fasting glucose, and educational attainment. The five obesity indicators included body mass index (BMI), body fat percentage (BFP), waist circumference (WC), hip circumference (HC), and waist-hip ratio (WHR).
Abdominal obesity defined by WHR was significantly associated with poor cognitive performance. Male WHR > = 0.90 had a higher risk of poor cognitive performance than male WHR < 0.90 (odds ratio [OR] = 1.233; p = 0.007); female WHR > = 0.85 had an increased risk of poor cognitive performance compared with female WHR < 0.85 (OR = 1.221; p = 3.9E-4). HC and general obesity (defined by BMI and BFP) were not significantly associated with cognitive performance.
The results consistently agreed that preventing abdominal obesity is associated with better cognitive performance in both males and females.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sociocultural factors in relation to mental health within the Inuit population of Nunavik.
Built on the Inuit determinants approach of health, this study aimed to identify sociocultural factors associated with mental health among Inuit of Nunavik to guide programs and services.
The data were collected through the Qanuilirpitaa? 2017, a survey characterized by the involvement of several Inuit representatives. Depressive symptoms (10-item Center for Epidemiologic Studies-Depression scale, CES-D), lifetime suicide ideation and attempts, and past-year ideation were self-reported mental health indicators. Sociocultural factors represented four thematic domains: social support, community activities, traditional practices, and cultural identity. Analyses tested whether the sociocultural factors were associated with indicators of mental health using weighted multivariate regressions.
Among the sociocultural factors considered, family cohesion and weekly hunting/fishing activities were associated with lower depression scores. Community cohesion and lower cultural identity (centrality scale) were associated with a lower likelihood of past-year and lifetime ideation while family cohesion was related to a lower likelihood of lifetime attempts. People with psychological distress (higher CES-D, suicidal ideation or attempts) were more likely to participate in healing and wellness activities.
Although limited by their cross-sectional character, these analyses, based on the community component of the Qanuilirpitaa?, suggest that strengthening of family and community cohesion, and support of regular hunting and fishing deserve further attention as potential cumulative preventive avenues for Inuit mental health.
© 2022. The Author(s) under exclusive license to The Canadian Public Health Association.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Habenula as a Possible Target for Treatment-Resistant Depression Phenotype in Wistar Kyoto Rats.
The mechanisms of treatment-resistant depression (TRD) are not clear and are difficult to study. An animal model resembling human TRD is the Wistar Kyoto rat strain. In the present study, we focused on selecting miRNAs that differentiate rats of the WKY strain from Wistar Han (WIS) rats in two divisions of the habenula, the lateral and medial (LHb and MHb, respectively). Based on our preliminary study and literature survey, we identified 32 miRNAs that could be potentially regulated in the habenula. Six miRNAs significantly differentiated WKY rats from WIS rats within the MHb, and three significantly differentiated WKY from WIS rats within the LHb. Then, we selected relevant transcripts regulated by those miRNAs, and their expression in the habenular nuclei was investigated. For mRNAs that differentiated WKY rats from WIS rats in the MHb (Cdkn1c, Htr7, Kcnj9, and Slc12a5), their lower expression correlated with a higher level of relevant miRNAs. In the LHb, eight mRNAs significantly differentiated WKY from WIS rats (upregulated Htr4, Drd2, Kcnj5, and Sstr4 and downregulated Htr2a, Htr7, Elk4, and Slc12a5). These data indicate that several important miRNAs are expressed in the habenula, which differentiates WKY rats from WIS rats and in turn correlates with alterations in the expression of target transcripts. Of particular note are two genes whose expression is altered in WKY rats in both LHb and MHb: Slc12a5 and Htr7. Regulation of KCC2 via the 5-HT7 receptor may be a potential target for the treatment of TRD.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Development of an intrinsic health risk prediction model for camera-based monitoring of older adults living alone.
The number of older adults in Korea is increasing, along with the number of depressed older patients. The causes of depression in older adults include social isolation with negligible interaction with others, irregular nutritional habits, and self-negligence, i.e., they do not engage in any activity. These factors, self-negligence, social isolation, and irregular nutritional habits, are defined as inherent health risks, and in this study, we detected them. These factors can only be derived through long-term monitoring, but the current monitoring system for older adults is severely limited as it focuses only on emergencies, such as "falls." Therefore, in this study, the goal was to perform long-term monitoring using a camera. In order to capture the physical characteristics of the older adults, the ETRI-Activity3D data were used for training, and the skeleton-based action recognition algorithm Posec3d was used. By defining 90 frames as the time taken for one action, we built a monitoring system to enable long-term monitoring of older adult by performing multiple action detection in one video. A reliable monitoring system, with 98% accuracy, 98% precision, 99% recall, and 98% F1, was successfully established for health monitoring of older adults. This older adult monitoring technology is expected to improve the quality of medical services in a medical environment as well as the objective, activities of daily living test, which does not depend on the observer through daily life detection.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
When Staying Home Is Not Safe: An Investigation of the Role of Attachment Style on Stress and Intimate Partner Violence in the Time of COVID-19.
Intimate partner violence (IPV) is a major public health concern, with increasing rates of IPV being seen around the world during the COVID-19 pandemic. Previous research has linked the perpetration of IPV and other forms of sexual violence to aspects of romantic attachment psychology, with insecure anxious/preoccupied attachment most often linked to higher rates of IPV. Stressful events typically activate the attachment system and may either aggravate or disrupt its regulatory functioning. In the present study, we investigated whether COVID-related PTSD and depressive symptoms were associated with increased IPV perpetration and whether this relationship was moderated by levels of attachment security. Our findings indicated that higher COVID-related PTSD was significantly associated with increased IPV perpetration in securely attached individuals, whereas depressive symptoms was significantly associated with decreased IPV perpetration in securely attached individuals. IPV perpetration by insecure individuals was consistently high regardless of COVID-related PTSD or depressive symptoms. These findings suggest that COVID-related PTSD may erode adaptive attachment functioning, particularly among the previously secure, which can have important consequences for secure individuals and their intimate partners. The present findings may explain some of the recent increase in IPV cases worldwide and serve to raise awareness and motivate clinical interventions to more efficiently help both victims and perpetrators of IPV stay safe while staying home.
© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Epileptiform activity induced metaplasticity impairs bidirectional plasticity in the hippocampal CA1 synapses via GluN2B NMDA receptors.
Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is the most common type of epilepsy in humans. Cognitive impairment and memory consolidation problems are common among TLE patients. To understand the changes in the cellular process of memory in TLE, we studied the long-term depression (LTD) in Schaffer-collateral (Sc) CA1 synapses in an epilepsy model. Long-term potentiation (LTP) was investigated in patient samples and animal models by several groups, but LTD was not studied with the same interest in epilepsy research. Here we induced epileptiform activity in rat hippocampal slices using magnesium-free high-potassium (7.5 mM K +) artificial cerebrospinal fluid (HK-ACSF) and characterized the LTD in Sc-CA1 synapses. We found that epileptiform activity abolished/impaired LTD and depotentiation in the Sc-CA1 synapses. In control slices, application of NMDA (30 μM for 3 min) induced chemical LTD (c-LTD) in Sc-CA1 synapses, whereas epileptiform activity induced slices showed slow onset potentiation. Induction of LTD using 1 Hz, 900 pulses yielded a similar outcome as c-LTD. Both forms of LTD were NMDA receptor dependent. In addition, we found that the polarity changes in the synaptic plasticity in epileptiform-induced slices were blocked by GluN2B antagonists ifenprodil and Ro 25-6981. Our data suggest that epileptiform-induced metaplasticity inhibits LTD in Sc-CA1 synapses. We provide new insight into the cellular mechanism of memory formation during epilepsy.
© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Depression, Anxiety, Stress and Distress Following Cytoreductive Surgery and Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy: Results of a Prospective Cohort Study.
The aim of this study was to describe the levels of depression, anxiety, stress, and distress in patients undergoing cytoreductive surgery (CRS) and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC). The 21-item Depression, Anxiety and Stress Scale (DASS-21) and Distress Thermometer were administered preoperatively, postoperatively day 10, and at hospital discharge to 169 patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis undergoing CRS and HIPEC. The mean preoperative values for DASS-21 subscale scores were 4.7 (depression), 4.2 (anxiety), and 8.4 (stress), and the mean preoperative Distress Thermometer rating was 4.0. No significant changes in levels of depression, stress, or distress were noted thereafter. The DASS-21 anxiety subscale score significantly increased at hospital discharge (p = .005). Higher levels of preoperative psychological depression, anxiety, stress and distress were associated with worse mental component scores. Higher preoperative depression levels were associated with the provision of more clinical psychologist occasions of service, and higher preoperative distress levels were associated with younger age. Preoperative psychological measures are important for ensuring CRS and HIPEC patients that require additional support are identified and provided with ongoing psychological interventions.
© 2022. Crown.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Prevalence and associations of dry eye disease and meibomian gland dysfunction in the ural eye and medical study.
To assess the prevalence of dry eye disease (DED) and Meibomian gland dysfunction (MGD) in a population in Russia. The population-based Ural Eye and Medical Study was conducted in an urban and rural region in Bashkortostan/Russia and included 5899 (80.5%) out of 7328 eligible persons, aged 40 + years. DED and MGD were assessed by Schirmer´s test, slit-lamp based examination of the Meibomian glands, and an interview with DED-related questions. The study included 5153 (87.4%) individuals with DED and MGD assessments (mean age: 58.5 ± 10.5 years). The mean Schirmer´s test result was 11.8 ± 6.8 mm and 12.5 ± 7.1 mm for the right/left eye, with a result of ≤ 5 mm measured in 1098 (21.3%; 95% confidence intervals (CI) 20.2, 22.4) of the worse eyes. The mean subjective dry eye symptoms score was 1.37 ± 1.82. MGD grade 1 (telangiectasia at the lid margin), 2, 3, 4 or any grade in the worse eye was diagnosed in 901 (21.1%), 1161 (27.1%), 158 (3.7%), 32 (0.7%), and 2252 (52.6%; 95% CI 51.1, 54.1) eyes respectively. The prevalence of DED diagnosis #1, #2 and #3 (Schirmer´s test ≤ 5 mm, and dry eye score ≥ 1, ≥ 2, and ≥ 3, respectively), #4 (dry eye score ≥ 1, Schirmer test ≤ 5 mm, MGD grade 1 +), and #5 (dry eye score ≥ 1, Schirmer test ≤ 5 mm, MGD grade 2 +) were 598/5142 (11.6%), 426/5153 (8.3%), 273/5142 (5.3%), 335/5142 (6.5%), and 186/5142 (3.6%), respectively. Mean depression score as applied was 5.1 ± 3.8. Higher DED prevalence (definition #4) was associated (multivariable analysis) with female sex (odds ratio (OR) 1.71; 95% CI 1.31, 2.22; P < 0.001), higher depression score (OR 1.04; 95% CI 101, 1.07; P = 0.009), and higher prevalence of thyroid disease history (OR 1.63; 95% CI 1.19, 2.24; P = 0.006). DED and MGD were common in this rural and urban population, and their prevalence was associated with female sex, thyroid disease, and depression.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Identifying psychiatric manifestations in schizophrenia and depression from audio-visual behavioural indicators through a machine-learning approach.
Schizophrenia (SCZ) and depression (MDD) are two chronic mental disorders that seriously affect the quality of life of millions of people worldwide. We aim to develop machine-learning methods with objective linguistic, speech, facial, and motor behavioral cues to reliably predict the severity of psychopathology or cognitive function, and distinguish diagnosis groups. We collected and analyzed the speech, facial expressions, and body movement recordings of 228 participants (103 SCZ, 50 MDD, and 75 healthy controls) from two separate studies. We created an ensemble machine-learning pipeline and achieved a balanced accuracy of 75.3% for classifying the total score of negative symptoms, 75.6% for the composite score of cognitive deficits, and 73.6% for the total score of general psychiatric symptoms in the mixed sample containing all three diagnostic groups. The proposed system is also able to differentiate between MDD and SCZ with a balanced accuracy of 84.7% and differentiate patients with SCZ or MDD from healthy controls with a balanced accuracy of 82.3%. These results suggest that machine-learning models leveraging audio-visual characteristics can help diagnose, assess, and monitor patients with schizophrenia and depression.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Middle eastern refugee children and adolescents mental health: A systematic review.
Psychological problems have become a substantial burden on refugee communities, with a considerable impact on refugee children's quality of life and well-being. The available studies reveal growing mental health disorders in refugee children and adolescents, particularly traumas, anxiety, and depression disorders. This review aims to examine empirical evidence relating to the mental health of refugee children and adolescents in the Middle East. Following the Joanna Briggs Institute and Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines, this systematic literature review (2010-2020) identified 54 studies about Middle Eastern refugee children and adolescents' mental health. Eighteen studies were excluded based on their lack of relevance to the focus of the review. Of the remaining records, ten reported common mental health disorders, ten reported on Post-traumatic Stress Disorder, three reported the importance of mental health promotion in schools, while the others discussed protective factors. The results highlight a need to understand the mental health support needs of this group, add knowledge to this area of inquiry and provide baseline data regarding Middle Eastern refugee children and adolescents mental health. Differences across research designs were recorded to contextualize the quality of the study results. There is a paucity of studies investigating the causality, prevalence, risk factors, and interventions of non-traumatic-psychiatric disorders as well as the role of teacher in strengthen refugee's mental health. Limited information is available about suicidality and self-harm, protective factors, adversity, adaptation, acculturation, and social demographics in refugee children.
© 2022 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Anxiety and depression in lung cancer: effect of psychological interventions - network meta-analysis.
The prevalence of depression and anxiety is high in patients with lung cancer, while multiple psychological interventions have revealed a positive impact on patients' negative emotions. However, it remains scarce which psychological intervention is the best choice for patients.This study was conducted to compare and rank the efficacy of psychological interventions on anxiety and depression in patients with lung cancer using a network meta-analysis.
The Chinese academic database (CNKI, Wan Fang and Vip) and English academic database (The Cochrane Library, PubMed, PsycINFO and Web of Science) were searched from their inception to March 2022. Randomised controlled studies of psychological interventions on depression and anxiety in patients with lung cancer were included. Study selection and evaluation were conducted independently by two researchers. Included studies were performed a network meta-analysis to compare and rank the psychological interventions for negative emotions of patients with lung cancer. The clustered ranking of psychotherapies in the network was based on surface under the cumulative probability ranking curve values.
23 studies (2221 participants) with 13 psychological interventions were retrieved. The random-effects model showed a significantly large effect size of supportive therapy for anxiety (mean difference, MD 14.38, 95% CI 2.42 to 26.21) and depression (MD 14.29, 95% CI 2.74 to 25.70). The supportive therapy, sandplay therapy and music therapy were top three rankings of interventions for anxiety, while supportive therapy, dignity therapy and sandplay therapy were the top three interventions for depression.
Supportive therapy would be a more appropriate option for alleviating negative emotions in patients with lung cancer. Other psychological intervention techniques may be used as alternatives, such as sandplay therapy and music therapy for anxiety, dignity therapy and sandplay therapy for depression.
CRD42022320188.
© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The use of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) en bloc in Denmark: a nationwide register-based study.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) 
en bloc
 is defined as ECT administered on 2-3 consecutive days. In Denmark, ECT 
en bloc
 is recommended for severe conditions such as catatonia, treatment-resistant mania/psychosis, or imminent risk of suicide. To our knowledge, there are no recent reports on the use of ECT 
en bloc
 in clinical practice. Here, we provide such a report.
We characterized the use of ECT 
en bloc
 in the period from 2006-2019 based on data from Danish national registers. Furthermore, we compared mortality rates between patients receiving ECT en bloc and patients receiving standard regimen ECT (not 
en bloc
).
We identified 2173 patients who received a total of 2734 ECT 
en bloc
 treatment courses in Denmark in the period from 2006 to 2019 (6% of the total number of ECT treatment courses). The use of ECT 
en bloc
 was stable over the study period (range: 138-196 patients per year). The most common treatment indications were unipolar depression (41%), psychotic disorder (23%), and bipolar disorder (20%). The vast majority (90%) received ECT 
en bloc
 voluntarily. The 1-year mortality rate ratio for ECT 
en bloc
 compared to standard regimen ECT was 1.42 (95%CI: 1.03-1.95).
The use of ECT 
en bloc
 in Denmark is stable both in terms of the number of patients treated and treatment indications. In keeping with ECT 
en bloc
 being used for severe conditions, those receiving this treatment have a higher mortality rate compared to those receiving standard ECT, warranting careful monitoring during follow-up.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interventions to support the mental health and well-being of front-line healthcare workers in hospitals during pandemics: an evidence review and synthesis.
Pandemics negatively impact healthcare workers' (HCW's) mental health and well-being causing additional feelings of anxiety, depression, moral distress and post-traumatic stress. A comprehensive review and evidence synthesis of HCW's mental health and well-being interventions through pandemics reporting mental health outcomes was conducted addressing two questions: (1) What mental health support interventions have been reported in recent pandemics, and have they been effective in improving the mental health and well-being of HCWs? (2) Have any mobile apps been designed and implemented to support HCWs' mental health and well-being during pandemics?
A narrative evidence synthesis was conducted using Cochrane criteria for synthesising and presenting findings when systematic review and pooling data for statistical analysis are not suitable due to the heterogeneity of the studies.
Evidence summary resources, bibliographic databases, grey literature sources, clinical trial registries and protocol registries were searched.
Subject heading terms and keywords covering three key concepts were searched: SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus (or similar infectious diseases) epidemics, health workforce and mental health support interventions. Searches were limited to English-language items published from 1 January 2000 to 14 June 2022. No publication-type limit was used.
Two authors determined eligibility and extracted data from identified manuscripts. Data was synthesised into tables and refined by coauthors.
2694 studies were identified and 27 papers were included. Interventions were directed at individuals and/or organisations and most were COVID-19 focused. Interventions had some positive impacts on HCW's mental health and well-being, but variable study quality, low sample sizes and lack of control conditions were limitations. Two mobile apps were identified with mixed outcomes.
HCW interventions were rapidly designed and implemented with few comprehensively described or evaluated. Tailored interventions that respond to HCWs' needs using experience co-design for mental health and well-being are required with process and outcome evaluation.
© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discrete choice experiment to investigate preferences for psychological intervention in cardiac rehabilitation.
Cardiac rehabilitation (CR) is offered to people who recently experienced a cardiac event, and often comprises of exercise, education and psychological care. This stated preference study aimed to investigate preferences for attributes of a psychological therapy intervention in CR.
A discrete choice experiment (DCE) was conducted and recruited a general population sample and a trial sample. DCE attributes included the modality (group or individual), healthcare professional providing care, information provided prior to therapy, location and the cost to the National Health Service (NHS). Participants were asked to choose between two hypothetical designs of therapy, with a separate opt-out included. A mixed logit model was used to analyse preferences. Cost to the NHS was used to estimate willingness to pay (WTP) for aspects of the intervention design.
Three hundred and four participants completed the DCE (general public sample (n=262, mean age 47, 48% female) and trial sample (n=42, mean age 66, 45% female)). A preference for receiving psychological therapy was demonstrated by both samples (general population WTP £1081; 95% CI £957 to £1206). The general population appeared to favour individual therapy (WTP £213; 95% CI £160 to £266), delivered by a CR professional (WTP £48; 9% % CI £4 to £93) and with a lower cost (β=-0.002; p<0.001). Participants preferred to avoid options where no information was received prior to starting therapy (WTP -£106; 95% CI -£153 to -£59). Results for the location attribute were variable and challenging to interpret.
The study demonstrates a preference for psychological therapy as part of a programme of CR, as participants were more likely to opt-in to therapy. Results indicate that some aspects of the delivery which may be important to participants can be tailored to design a psychological therapy. Preference heterogeneity is an issue which may prevent a 'one-size-fits-all' approach to psychological therapy in CR.
© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Anti-depressive-like and cognitive impairment alleviation effects of Gastrodia elata Blume water extract is related to gut microbiome remodeling in ApoE
Gastrodia elata Blume (GE) is a traditional Chinese dietary therapy used to treat neurological disorders. Gastrodia elata Blume water extract (WGE) has been shown to ameliorate inflammation and improve social frustration in mice in a chronic social defeat model. However, studies on the anti-depressive-like effects and cognitive impairment alleviation related to the impact of WGE on the gut microbiome of ApoE
-/-
 mice remain elusive.
The present study aimed to investigate the anti-depressive-like effect and cognitive impairment alleviation and mechanisms of WGE in ApoE
-/-
 mice subjected to unpredictable chronic mild stress (UCMS), as well as its impact on the gut microbiome of the mice.
Sixty ApoE
-/-
 mice (6 months old) were randomly grouped into six groups: control, UCMS, WGE groups [5, 10, 20 mL WGE/kg body weight (bw) + UCMS], and a positive group (fluoxetine 20 mg/kg bw + UCMS). After four weeks of the UCMS paradigm, the sucrose preference, novel object recognition, and open field tests were conducted. The neurotransmitters serotonin (5-HT) and dopamine (DA) and their metabolites were measured in the prefrontal cortex. Serum was collected to measure corticosterone and amyloid-42 (Aβ-42) levels. Feces were collected, and the gut microbiome was analyzed.
WGE restored sucrose preference, exploratory behavior and recognition ability, and decreased the levels of serum corticosterone and Aβ-42 in ApoE
-/-
 mice to alleviate depressive-like behavior and cognitive impairment. Furthermore, WGE regulated the monoamine neurotransmitter via reduced the 5-HT and DA turnover rates in the prefrontal cortex. Moreover, WGE elevated the levels of potentially beneficial bacteria such as Bifidobacterium, Akkermansia, Alloprevotella, Defluviitaleaceae_UCG-011, and Bifidobacterium pseudolongum as well as balanced fecal short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs).
WGE demonstrates anti-depressive-like effects, cognitive impairment alleviation, and gut microbiome and metabolite regulation in ApoE
-/-
 mice. Our results support the possibility of developing a functional and complementary medicine to prevent or alleviate depression and cognitive decline using WGE in CVDs patients.
Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier B.V.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Chain mediating effect of insomnia, depression, and anxiety on the relationship between nightmares and cognitive deficits in adolescents.
The study explored the differences in nightmare, insomnia, depression, anxiety, and cognitive deficits among adolescents and the chain mediating effects of insomnia, depression, and anxiety on the relationship between nightmares and cognitive deficits in adolescents.
An online survey was used to collect demographic data of 6014 adolescents and assess nightmare, insomnia, depression, anxiety, and cognitive deficits using the Chinese Version of Nightmare Distress Questionnaire, Insomnia Severity Index, Patient Health Questionnaire 9, Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7, and Perceived Deficits Questionnaire-Depression. Spearman correlation analysis and the SPSS function "PROCESS macro" were used for correlation and mediation analyses, respectively.
Female adolescents, senior high school, and poor academic performance had higher nightmare, insomnia, and cognitive deficit scores; those living in the city had higher depression and anxiety scores. Cognitive deficits were positively correlated with nightmares, insomnia, depression, and anxiety. Further, insomnia, depression, and anxiety had a chain mediating effect between nightmares and cognitive deficits in adolescents. Nightmares indirectly affect cognition deficits by affecting insomnia and then depression and anxiety symptoms.
As this was a cross-sectional study, the causal relationship between the variables could not be determined. Moreover, reporting bias and volunteer bias might be present.
These findings suggest that clinicians should identify adolescents with frequent nightmares early and provide timely treatment to minimize negative outcomes and possibly limit the chronicity of nightmare disorder. It is significant to maintain the physical and mental health development of adolescents to reduce the risk of insomnia, depression, anxiety, and cognitive deficits.
Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier B.V.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Metabolic reprogramming mediated PD-L1 depression and hypoxia reversion to reactivate tumor therapy.
As a promising cancer treatment, photodynamic therapy (PDT) still achieved limited clinical success due to the severe hypoxia and programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) over-expressed immunosuppression tumor microenvironment. At present, few methods have been proven to solve these two defects simply and effectively by a single drug or nano-system simultaneously. To ameliorate this situation, we designed and constructed MB@Bu@MnO
2
 nanoparticles with two-step oxygen regulation ability and PD-1/PD-L1 axis cascade-disruption capacity via a biomineralization method. In such a nanosystem, manganese dioxide albumin (MnO
2
@Alb) was used as the drug carrier, Butformin (Bu) as mitochondria-associated oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) disruption agent with PD-L1 depression and oxygen reversion ability, and methylene blue (MB) as PDT drug with programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) inhibition capacity. Owing to the tumor-responsive capacity of MB@Bu@MnO
2
 nanoparticles, Bu and MB were selectively delivered and released in tumors. Then, the tumor hypoxia was dramatically reversed by Bu inhibited oxygen consumption, and MnO
2
 improved oxygen generation. Following this, the reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation was enhanced by MB@Bu@MnO
2
 nanoparticles mediated PDT owing to the reversed tumor hypoxia. Furthermore, the immunosuppression microenvironment was also obviously reversed by MB@Bu@MnO
2
 nanoparticles enhanced immunogenic cell death (ICD) and PD-1/PD-L1 axis cascade-disruption, which then enhanced T cell infiltration and improved its tumor cell killing ability. Finally, the growth of solid tumors was significantly depressed by MB@Bu@MnO
2
 nanoparticles mediated PDT. All in all, this well-designed nanosystem could solve the defects of traditional PDT via PD-1/PD-L1 axis dual disruption and reversing tumor hypoxia by two-step oxygen regulation.
Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier B.V.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Involvement of AMPA receptors of lateral habenula in the expression and acquisition phases of morphine-induced place preference.
The lateral habenula (LHb), known as the brain structure of the epithalamic, plays the main role in depression and drug addiction. The glutamatergic system influences morphine reward. The effect of activation/inhibition of α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs) in the LHb on different phases of morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) remains unknown. In this research, the effect of bilateral intra-LHb microinjection of AMPARs agonist and antagonist on the acquisition and expression phases of CPP in male rats has been investigated. Different doses of NBQX, the antagonist of AMPARs, in combination with the effective dose of morphine, increased the CPP score during the acquisition phase. While AMPA, the agonist of AMPARs, significantly reduced the conditioning scores in the acquisition phase. Pretreatment with NBQX (0.5 and 1 μg/rat) reversed the inhibitory effect of AMPA (1 μg/rat) on the acquisition phase of morphine-induced CPP. The antagonist (1 μg/rat) increased the effect of a high dose of agonist (2 μg/rat) on CPP. On the other hand, NBQX significantly increased CPP scores during the expression phase. AMPA did not significantly affect CPP scores in the expression phase, but significantly reduced locomotor activity in the test phase. These results confirmed the importance of AMPARs in the LHb in morphine reward. Our data also suggest that injection of an AMPARs antagonist into the LHb may alter the AMPA-induced morphine response in a dose-dependent manner.
Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier B.V.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sex-dependent worsening of NMDA-induced responses, anxiety, hypercortisolemia, and organometry of early peripheral immunoendocrine impairment in adult 3xTg-AD mice and their long-lasting ontogenic modulation by neonatal handling.
The neuroimmunomodulation hypothesis for Alzheimer's disease (AD) postulates that alterations in the innate immune system triggered by damage signals result in adverse effects on neuronal functions. The peripheral immune system and neuroimmunoendocrine communication are also impaired. Here we provide further evidence using a longitudinal design that also studied the long-lasting effects of an early life sensorial intervention (neonatal handling, from postnatal day 1 to 21) in 6-month-old (early stages of the disease) male and female 3xTg-AD mice compared to age- and sex-matched non-transgenic (NTg) mice with normal aging. The behavioral patterns elicited by the direct exposure to an open field, and the motor depression response evoked by NMDA (25mg/kg, i.p) were found correlated to the organometry of peripheral immune-endocrine organs (thymus involution, splenomegaly, and adrenal glands' hypertrophy) and increased corticosterone levels, suggesting their potential value for diagnostic and biomonitoring.The NMDA-induced immediate and depressant motor activity and endocrine (corticosterone) responses were sensitive to sex and AD-genotype, suggesting worse endogenous susceptibility/neuroprotective response to glutamatergic excitotoxicity in males and in the AD-genotype. 3xTg-AD females showed a reduced immediate response, whereas the NTg showed higher responsiveness to subsequent NMDA-induced depressant effect than their male counterparts. The long-lasting ontogenic modulation by handling was shown as a potentiation of NMDA-depressant effect in NTg males and females, while sex × treatment effects were found in 3xTg-AD mice. Finally, NMDA-induced corticosterone showed sex, genotype and interaction effects with sexual dimorphism enhanced in the AD-genotype, suggesting different endogenous vulnerability/neuroprotective capacities and modulation of the neuroimmunoendocrine system.
Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier B.V.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Depression-related phenotypes at early stages of Aβ and tau accumulation in inducible Alzheimer's disease mouse model: task-oriented and concept-driven interpretations.
Depression is highly prevalent in Alzheimer Disease (AD); however, there is paucity of studies that focus specifically on the assessment of depression-relevant phenotypes in AD mouse models. Conditional doxycycline-dependent transgenic mouse models reproducing amyloidosis (TetOffAPPsi) and/or tau (TetOffTauP301L) pathology starting at middle age (6 months) were used in this study. As AD patients can experience depressive symptoms relatively early in disease, testing was conducted at early, pre-pathology stages of Aβ and/or tau accumulation (starting from 45 days of transgenes expression). Tau-related differences were detected in the Novelty Suppressed Feeding task (NSF), whereas APP-related differences were observed predominantly in measures of the Open Field (OF) and Forced Swim tasks (FST). Effects of combined production of Aβ and tau were detected in immobility during the 1st half of the Tail Suspension task (TST). These data demonstrate that results from different tasks are difficult to reconcile using task/variable-centered interpretations in which a single task/variable is assigned an ad-hoc meaning relevant to depression. An alternative, concept-oriented, approach is based on multiple variables/tests, with an understanding of their possible inter-dependence and utilization of statistical approaches that handle correlated data sets. The existence of strong correlations within and between some of the tasks supported utilization of factor analyses (FA). FA explained a similar amount of variability across the genotypes (~80%) and identified two factors stable across genotypes and representing motor activity and anxiety measures in OF. In contrast, variables related to FST, TST, and NSFT did not demonstrate a structure of factor loadings that would support the existence of a single integral factor of "depressive state" measured by these tasks. In addition, factor loadings varied between genotypes, indicating that genotype-specific between-task correlations need to be considered for interpretations of findings in any single task. In general, this study demonstrates that utilization of multiple tasks to characterize behavioral phenotypes, an approach that is finally gaining more widespread adoption, requires a step of data integration across different behavioral tests for appropriate interpretations.
Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier B.V.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Chronic mild stress induces differential depression-like symptoms and c-Fos and 5HT1A protein levels in high-anxiety female Long Evans rats.
Depression and anxiety disorders overlap in clinical populations, suggesting common mechanisms that may be further investigated in reliable animal models. We used filial 8 female Long-Evans rats bred for high (HAn; n=19) and low anxiety (LAn)-like behavior (n=21) to assess forced swim test mobility strategies and chronic mild stress (CMS)-induced depression-like symptoms. We measured (1) weight, (2) fur piloerection, (3) sweet food consumption, (4) grooming behavior, and (5) circulating estradiol (E2). One month after CMS terminated and following a terminal forced swim test, brains were processed for immunohistochemistry targeting c-Fos and serotonin 1A receptor (5-HT1AR) protein in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus. HAn female rats showed increased anxiety-like behavior (i.e., lower open to closed arm ratios, increased closed arm entries), more swimming (i.e., mobility), and less floating (i.e., immobility) behavior in the forced swim test. Overall, HAn females weighed less than their LAn counterparts. After chronic mild stress, HAn lines displayed even greater mobility and consumed fewer Froot Loops™. Fur and grooming analyses indicated no significant differences in mean counts across experimental groups. One month after CMS, cycling E2 concentrations (pg/ml) did not differ between HAn and LAn animals. Elevated c-Fos and 5-HT1AR expression were observed in the PVN, where HAn CMS rats expressed the most c-Fos and 5-HT1AR immunoreactivity. In summary, outbred HAn rats show robust anxiety-like behavior, exhibit more mobility in the forced swim test, and are more sensitive to chronic mild stress-induced grooming and decline in palatable food ingestion.
Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier B.V.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ARE COGNITIVE ASPECTS OF DEFENSE A CORE FEATURE OF ANXIETY AND DEPRESSION?
Anxiety and depression are highly prevalent behavior disorders, particularly in women. Recent preclinical work using animal models has been suboptimal in predicting the efficacy of drugs targeted at these conditions, suggesting a potential discrepancy between such models and the human disorders. Notably female animals tend to be equal to, or less responsive than, males in these tasks. A number of analyses suggest that mammalian defense patterns are complex: In addition to relatively discrete and immediate fight, flight, and freezing responses, a risk assessment pattern may occur in response to threat stimuli or situations with ambiguous elements. This pattern combines defensiveness with a number of cognition-linked behaviors such as sensory attention and orientation, approach, contact, and investigation of the potential threat. Studies measuring elements of this pattern suggest that female rats, and perhaps female mice, show higher levels than equivalent males. Higher female involvement may also occur in tasks involving learning/generalization/extinction of defensiveness to conditioned stimuli. Such findings are consonant with recent analyses of "female survival strategies" based on differential adaptiveness of cognitive components of defensiveness in females, due to the necessity of female care of offspring until they are independent. These data suggest the value of additional behavioral and functional analyses of cognitive aspects of defensive behavior; contributing to both an understanding of their underlying mechanisms, and providing more sensitive measures of drug responsivity for use with animal models.
Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Emotion malleability beliefs influence emotion regulation and emotion recovery among individuals with depressive symptoms.
ABSTRACT
Despite the centrality of emotion regulation in psychiatric disorders such as depression, there is a lack of experimental studies examining the psychological factors that influence emotion regulation in individuals with depressive symptoms. Participants with current depressive symptoms were randomly assigned to an experimental manipulation promoting more malleable emotion beliefs or the control condition. Participants underwent a negative emotion induction and reported on their affect and emotion regulation during the induction. Individuals who received the experimental manipulation reported greater cognitive reappraisal and greater emotion recovery. Experimental manipulations that can enhance emotion regulation and emotion recovery possess significant promise as a preliminary step in developing brief interventions that can overcome formal barriers to care.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Suppression of milk-derived miR-148a caused by stress plays a role in the decrease in intestinal ZO-1 expression in infants.
Milk-derived miR-148a-3p (miR-148a), which is abundant in breast milk, has been shown to be associated with the development of infants' intestines. Although it is well known that stress during lactation changes milk constituents in terms of lipid and protein, no studies have examined the influence of stress on miR-148a expression in breast milk. The objective of this study is to investigate the relationship between stress and miR-148a expression in milk, and to evaluate whether the changes in milk-derived miR-148a expression-caused by the mother's exposure to stress-influence intestinal ZO-1 expression in infants.
The participants of this study were healthy Japanese women who were nursing. Psychological stress evaluation of the subjects was conducted using a short form of the Profile of Mood State Second Edition-Adult (POMS-2). Additionally, miR-148a expressions in restraint stressed nursing mice were investigated using quantitative real-time PCR. The levels of a tight junction protein zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1) and DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1), which is a direct target of miR-148a, in ileum in neonatal mice breastfed by stressed nursing mice were investigated using Western blot. Furthermore, to investigate the influence of miR-148a on ZO-1 expression within the intestine, the levels of ZO-1 and DNMT1 in human intestinal epithelial Caco-2 cells with lentivirus-mediated miR-148a overexpression were evaluated.
A significantly negative correlation was observed between relative miR-148a expression in breast milk and the total mood disturbance T-score. Each T-score on negative mood subscales of anger-hostility, confusion-bewilderment, depression-dejection, fatigue-inertia, and tension-anxiety was significantly negatively correlated with relative miR-148a expression in breast milk: a positive mood subscale vigor-activity T-score was significantly positively correlated with relative miR-148a expression in breast milk. A positive mood friendliness T-score, estimated separately from other scores, was significantly positively correlated with relative miR-148a expression in breast milk. Additionally, the relative expression of miR-148a in the milk obtained from stressed mice was significantly lower than that of control mice. The relative level of ZO-1 in ileum of neonatal mice nursed by stressed mice was significantly lower than that of neonatal mice nursed by control mice. Additionally, the relative level of DNMT1 in ileum of neonatal mice nursed by stressed mice was significantly higher than that of neonatal mice nursed by control mice. Furthermore, the relative level of ZO-1 in miR-148a-overexpressed Caco-2 cells was significantly higher than that in control cells. The relative level of DNMT1 in miR-148a-overexpressed Caco-2 cells was significantly lower than that in control cells.
Mothers' exposure to stress during lactation may cause miR-148a expression in breast milk. Additionally, stressed-induced suppression of miR-148a expression in breast milk may cause a decrease in intestinal ZO-1 level via the increase in DNMT1 in infants' intestines. These observations are beneficial information for breastfeeding mothers and their families and perinatal medical professionals. Our findings encourage monitoring maternal psychological stress during lactation to promote breastfeeding and adequate infant nutrition.
Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd and European Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Psychiatric comorbidities among people with epilepsy: A population-based assessment in disadvantaged communities.
Psychiatric disorders are frequent among people with epilepsy but often under-recognized. The diagnosis and treatment of these disorders in low- and low-middle-income countries (LMICs) are challenging.
This cross-sectional survey included people recruited during a community epilepsy screening program involving 59,509 individuals from poor communities in Ludhiana in Northwest India. Adults (age ≥18 years) with confirmed epilepsy on antiseizure medications were screened for depression and anxiety using the Neurological Disorders Depression Inventory for Epilepsy (NDDI-E) and Generalized Anxiety Disorder-7 (GAD-7) twice over two years of follow-up. They were later interviewed for symptoms using the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale, which was then confirmed by assessments by an experienced psychiatrist.
Of the 240 people with confirmed epilepsy, 167 (70%) were adults, of whom, 116 (70%) eventually participated in the study. The NDDI-E with a cut-off of 15 identified depression in 14 (12%) of 116 people after one year of follow-up and 17 (15%) at two years. The GAD-7 using a cut-off of 6 identified 22 (19%) at one year and 32 (28%) with anxiety at two years. The area under the curves for NDDI-E was estimated as 0.62 (
95%
CI, 0.51-0.73; SE: 0.06; p = 0.04) and for GAD-7 as 0.62 (
95%
CI, 0.46-0.78; SE: 0.08; p = 0.12). Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale identified 63 (54%) people with psychiatric symptoms, for whom, a psychiatric diagnosis was confirmed in 60 (52%). A psychiatric diagnosis was associated with education below high school [Odds Ratio (OR): 2.59, 
95%
CI, 1.12-5.1; p = 0.03], later age of seizure onset (OR, 1.05, 
95%
CI: 1.0-1.10; p = 0.04), seizure frequency of at least one/year at enrolment (OR, 2.36, 
95%
CI: 1.0-5.58; p = 0.05) and the use of clobazam (OR, 5.09, 
95%
CI, 1.40-18.42; p = 0.01).
Depression and anxiety are common in people with epilepsy. Our findings underscore the low yields of screening instruments, NDDI-E and GAD-7, and comparatively better professionally-administered diagnostic assessments in resource-limited settings in LMICs. Moreover, previously established cut-offs do not apply to the community studied.
Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Construct validity and reliability of the Informal Caregiver Burden Assessment Questionnaire (QASCI) in caregivers of patients with COPD.
COPD often leads to loss of independence in daily activities which may increase the dependency on the informal caregiver, resulting in caregiving burden. Several instruments have been used to assess caregiving burden in COPD; however, their measurement properties have been poorly investigated in this population. This study assessed the construct validity and reliability of the Informal Caregiver Burden Assessment Questionnaire (QASCI) in informal caregivers of patients with COPD.
Participants completed the QASCI (higher scores indicate higher burden) and the following questionnaires to assess construct validity: Zarit Burden Interview (ZBI), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) and World Health Organization Quality of Life Instrument - Short Form (WHOQOL-Bref). QASCI was completed again one week later to assess test-retest reliability. Statistical analyses included: Pearson's (r) or Spearman's (ρ) correlations (construct validity); Cronbach's α (internal consistency); Intraclass Correlation Coefficient (ICC
2,1
, test-retest reliability) and Standard Error of Measurement (SEM), Minimal Detectable Change (MDC
95
) and Bland and Altman 95% Limits of Agreement (LoA).
Fifty caregivers (62.7 ± 9.8 years, 88% female; patients' FEV
1
 = 45.2 ± 21.3%predicted) participated. QASCI mean score was 28.5 ± 19.8 (moderate burden). QASCI was positively correlated with ZBI (r = 0.908; p < 0.01), HADS anxiety (r = 0.613; p < 0.01) and depression (ρ = 0.634; <0.01) and negatively correlated with WHOQOL-Bref (-0.476 to -0.739) (all p < 0.01). Cronbach's α was 0.793 for the QASCI total score (subscales: 0.747-0.932). The ICC
2,1
 was 0.924, SEM 2.8 and MDC
95
 7.8, and the LoA were -18.3 to 11.1.
The QASCI seems to be a promising measure to assess burden levels associated with informal caregiving in COPD.
Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Agoraphobic avoidance in patients with psychosis: Severity and response to automated VR therapy in a secondary analysis of a randomised controlled clinical trial.
The social withdrawal of many patients with psychosis can be conceptualised as agoraphobic avoidance due to a range of long-standing fears. We hypothesised that greater severity of agoraphobic avoidance is associated with higher levels of psychiatric symptoms and lower levels of quality of life. We also hypothesised that patients with severe agoraphobic avoidance would experience a range of benefits from an automated virtual reality (VR) therapy that allows them to practise everyday anxiety-provoking situations in simulated environments.
345 patients with psychosis in a randomised controlled trial were categorised into average, moderate, high, and severe avoidance groups using the Oxford Agoraphobic Avoidance Scale. Associations of agoraphobia severity with symptom and functioning variables, and response over six months to brief automated VR therapy (gameChange), were tested.
Greater severity of agoraphobic avoidance was associated with higher levels of persecutory ideation, auditory hallucinations, depression, hopelessness, and threat cognitions, and lower levels of meaningful activity, quality of life, and perceptions of recovery. Patients with severe agoraphobia showed the greatest benefits with gameChange VR therapy, with significant improvements at end of treatment in agoraphobic avoidance, agoraphobic distress, ideas of reference, persecutory ideation, paranoia worries, recovering quality of life, and perceived recovery, but no significant improvements in depression, suicidal ideation, or health-related quality of life.
Patients with psychosis with severe agoraphobic avoidance, such as being unable to leave the home, have high clinical need. Automated VR therapy can deliver clinical improvement in agoraphobia for these patients, leading to a number of wider benefits.
Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The effects of transient receptor potential cation channel inhibition by BI 1358894 on cortico-limbic brain reactivity to negative emotional stimuli in major depressive disorder.
Abnormal emotional processing in major depressive disorder (MDD) has been associated with increased activation to negative stimuli in cortico-limbic brain regions. The authors investigated whether treatment with BI 1358894, a small-molecule inhibitor of the transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily C leads to attenuated activity in these areas in MDD patients. 73 MDD patients were randomized to receive a single oral dose of BI 1358894 (100 mg), citalopram (20 mg), or matching placebo. Brain responses to emotional faces and scenes were investigated using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Primary endpoints were BOLD signal changes in response to negative faces in cortico-limbic brain regions, i.e. bilateral amygdala (AMY), dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, anterior insula (AI), and anterior cingulate cortex. Secondary endpoints were BOLD signal changes in response to negative scenes. For each region, separate ANOVA models were computed for the comparison of treatments (BI 1358894 or citalopram) vs. placebo. The adjusted treatment differences in the % BOLD signal changes in the faces task showed that BI 1358894 induced signal reduction in bilateral AMY and left AI. In the scenes task, BI 1358894 demonstrated significant signal reduction in bilateral AMY, AI, anterior cingulate cortex and left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Citalopram failed to induce any significant reductions in BOLD signal in both tasks. BI 1358894-mediated inhibition of the transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily resulted in strong signal reduction in cortico-limbic brain regions, thereby supporting development of this mechanism of action for MDD patients.
Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier B.V.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Rosemary as an adjunctive treatment in patients with major depressive disorder: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
Rosemary has shown antidepressant and anxiolytic properties. Thus, the present study aimed at assessing the therapeutic effects of orally administered rosemary capsules in patients with major depressive disorder.
Rosmarinic acid content of rosemary was determined using high performance liquid chromatography method. Hard gelatin capsules of rosemary were prepared, and their physicochemical properties were assessed. In this clinical trial, patients with major depressive disorder were randomly divided into rosemary and control groups. They received one capsule of rosemary or placebo twice a day for 8 weeks. The anxiety subscale of Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale and Beck Depression Inventory - Second Edition were respectively used to measure the symptoms of anxiety and depression in the patients before initiating the treatment and four and eight weeks after the treatment.
The amount of rosmarinic acid in rosemary was found to be 21.13 ± 0.56 mg/g dried plant. The scores of anxiety subscale of Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale and Beck Depression Inventory significantly decreased in the rosemary group compared to those in the control group 8 weeks after the treatment. Memory improvement was a beneficial side effect observed in the study.
The use of rosemary as an adjunctive therapy could improve the symptoms of anxiety and depression in people with major depression.
Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No Evidence The Child Tax Credit Expansion Had An Effect On The Well-Being And Mental Health Of Parents.
In 1997 the US established the Child Tax Credit (CTC), which offers payments to parents of dependent children to help defray child-rearing costs. In 2021 a temporary expansion to the CTC increased the size of payments, extended payments to families with low or no earnings, and distributed payments monthly instead of annually. Quasi-experimental evidence from the US and experimental evidence from low- and middle-income countries shows that moderate-to-large cash transfers improve subjective well-being and mental health. We estimated the CTC's expansion's effects on the subjective well-being and mental health of adult recipients, using data from the Understanding America Study, a nationally representative survey with more than 7,000 respondents and more than 2,700 unique respondents with children. We found no evidence that the CTC expansion had a significant short-term impact on measures of life satisfaction, anxiety, and depression symptomology among adult recipients. We speculate that the null effects may be due to the expansion's temporary nature.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Effects of the Perceived Risk of Contracting COVID-19 on Nursing Students' Well-Being.
Although mental health symptoms increased during the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, little is known about the associations between nursing students' perceived risk of contracting COVID-19 and their academic and psychological well-being. This study examined associations between perceived COVID-19 risk, likelihood of completing nursing education, and mental health factors of nursing students.
A total of 979 nursing students completed self-report measures of perceived COVID-19 risk, anticipated academic completion, anxiety and depressive symptoms, stress, coping self-efficacy, hope, and social support.
Students with higher perceived COVID-19 risk reported increased anxiety and depression as well as decreased likelihood of graduating, coping self-efficacy, and levels of social support.
Findings indicate the need for increased mental health support for nursing students for successful completion of their programs. Educators should increase support and proactively strengthen positive psychology factors to mitigate the effects of COVID-19 and other crises on nursing students' well-being. 
[
J Nurs Educ
. 2022;61(11):641-645.]
.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Evaluation of depression, anxiety, and stress status in parents of patient with congenital clubfoot treated with Ponseti method: A prospective study.
Congenital diseases have been reported to increase the incidence of depression, anxiety, and stress among parents. In this study, we aimed to investigate the depression, anxiety, and stress status in parents of patients with congenital clubfoot before and after treatment with the Ponseti method. A total of 20 patients diagnosed with congenital clubfoot at our clinic and treated with the Ponseti method were included in this study. The Depression Anxiety Stress Scale-21 (DASS-21) was used to evaluate the depression, anxiety, and stress status of the parents before and after treatment. We considered the following parameters to investigate the effects of these on the parents: the educational level of the parents; economic status of the family; gender; birth order of the child in the family; time of diagnosis (prenatal or postnatal). The mean DASS and subdomain scores after treatment were significantly lower than those before treatment (P < .05). Moreover, there was a significant difference in the pre- and posttreatment mean DASS and depression scores of the participants in terms of the education level (P < .05). The pre- and posttreatment DASS and depression scores of the participants with an education level of primary school and below were lower than those of the participants with an education level of secondary and high school. Parents may be less concerned during this process if they are fully informed by the orthopedic surgeons about the treatment protocol and the near-perfect results of the Ponseti method as well as are counseled by healthcare professionals.
Copyright © 2022 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Characteristics and mechanism of reciprocal ST-segment depression in acute ST segment elevation myocardial infarction: Reciprocal ST-segment depression and ST segment elevation myocardial infarction.
At present, the mechanism of reciprocal ST-segment depression (RSTD) is unclear. ST-segment changes may be caused by the potential difference between the positive and negative electrodes, although this requires further investigation. The characteristics of RSTD and their relationship with ST-segment elevation in acute ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients were analyzed. We replaced the negative electrode of the precordial leads of an inferior wall myocardial infarction patient and observed the changes in the ST-segment of the precordial leads. A total of 85 patients were included, of which 75 were patients with RSTD. All 45 patients with inferior myocardial infarction had limb lead RSTD, and 37 had anterior lead ST-segment depression. All ST-segment changes in STEMI can be explained by the proposed mechanism, and the value of ST segment depression in limb leads can be calculated by the value of ST segment elevation. In summary, the mechanism of RSTD in acute myocardial infarction may be that the action potential (AP) of the negative electrode of the lead weakens or disappears and the AP of the positive electrode may not be completely offset, resulting in ST-segment depression. Animal experimental studies are needed for further confirmation. When the negative electrode of the precordial lead is changed in acute inferior wall myocardial infarction patient, the ST-segment of the precordial lead changes accordingly. All the changes are consistent with our analysis.
Copyright © 2022 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Adaptation and validation of Polish Version of Reasons for Living Inventory (RFL-48) by M.M. Linehan et al.
The aim of the study was to develop the Polish version of the Reasons for Living Inventory (RFL-48) of Linehan et al. The questionnaire is a self-descriptive tool designed to measure six factors protecting against committing suicide: "Survival and Coping Beliefs", "Responsibility to Family", "Fear of Suicide", "Moral Objections", "Fear of Social Disapproval", "Child-Related Concerns". The original version of the method was characterized by good psychometric properties.
A sample of 431 adults (236 women and 195 men), aged 18-65 years (mean age was 33 years, SD = 11.33), was recruited as a non-clinical group from various regions of Poland. The Beck's Depression Inventory, Suicide Behaviors Questionnaire-Revised and Positivity Scale were also used to evaluate the construct validity of the RFL-48.
Exploratory and confirmatory factor analysis supported an assumed six-dimensional structure of the questionnaire. Cronbach's alpha ranged from 0.70 ("Fear of Suicide") to 0.95 ("Survival and Coping Beliefs") and amounted to 0.92 for the total score.
The findings indicate that the Polish adaptation of the RFL questionnaire by Linehan et al. has good psychometric characteristics and can be used in both research and clinical practice.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A naturalistic, 24-week, open-label, add-on study of vortioxetine in bipolar depression.
The efficacy of vortioxetine in major depressive disorder has been evaluated in many studies. However, there is a lack of studies assessing vortioxetine in bipolar depression.
In 60 patients with bipolar depression, vortioxetine 10-20 mg daily was added to current mood stabilizing medication during 24-week, naturalistic, openlabel study. The most frequent mood stabilizers were lamotrigine, quetiapine, olanzapine, and valproates. The therapeutic efficacy was evaluated by the Clinical Global Impression - Improvement (CGI-I) and Clinical Global Impression - Severity (CGI-S) scales. Patients were classified as responding to vortioxetine when they achieved 1 or 2 points on the CGI-I scale at any stage of observation. The criterion of remission was defined as score 1 at the CGI-S.
73% of all patients (44/60) responded to vortioxetine and 52% (31/60) achieved clinical remission of depressive symptoms (in mean 8.97 ± 4.05 weeks). There were no significant associations between vortioxetine response/remission rates and: (1) the dose, (2) BD type, (3) clinical stage, (4) presence of rapid cycling, (5) history of psychotic symptoms, analyzed depressive symptoms, and (6) concomitantly used mood stabilizer. 4 patients (6.7%) stopped treatment due to adverse effects (nausea), and 7 patients (11.7%) discontinued treatment due to the phase switch. 14 patients (23%) experienced a loss of vortioxetine effectiveness after the initial response or remission.
The results indicate relatively high rates of response and remission during 24-week treatment in depressed bipolar patients receiving vortioxetine concomitantly with a mood stabilizer. This may indicate that vortioxetine added to a mood stabilizer may constitute an efficient and well tolerated therapeutic option in bipolar depression.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Socioeconomic and ethnical disparity in coronary heart disease outcomes in Denmark and the effect of cardiac rehabilitation-A nationwide registry study.
Cardiovascular patients with low socioeconomic status and non-western ethnic background have worse prognostic outcomes. The aim of this nationwide study was first to address whether short-term effects of hospital-based outpatient cardiac rehabilitation (CR) are similar across educational level and ethnic background, and secondly to study whether known disparity in long-term prognosis in patients with cardiovascular disese is diminished by CR participation.
All patients with myocardial infarction and/or coronary revascularization from August 2015 until March 2018 in the Danish national patient registry or the Danish cardiac rehabilitation database (DHRD) were included. We used descriptive statistics to address disparity in achievement of quality indicators in CR, and Cox proportional hazard regression to examine the association between the disparity measures and MACE (cardiovascular hospitalization and all-cause mortality) with adjustment for age, gender, index-diagnose and co-morbidity.
We identified 34,511 patients of whom 19,383 had participated in CR and 9,882 provided information on CR outcomes from the DHRD. We demonstrated a socioeconomic gradient in improvements in VO2peak, and non-western patients were less often screened for depression or receive dietary consulting. We found a strong socioeconomic gradient in MACE irrespective of CR participation, medication, and risk factor control (adjusted HR 0.65 (95% CI 0.56-0.77) for high versus low education). Non-western origin was associated with higher risk of MACE (adjusted HR 1.2 (1.1-1.4)).
We found only minor socioeconomic and ethnic differences in achievement of CR quality indicators but strong differences in CHD prognosis indication that conventional risk factor control and medical treatment following CR do not diminish the socioeconomic and ethnical disparity in CHD prognosis.
Copyright: © 2022 Kjesbu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bridging the Gap between Deep Learning and Hypothesis-Driven Analysis via Permutation Testing.
A fundamental approach in neuroscience research is to test hypotheses based on neuropsychological and behavioral measures, i.e., whether certain factors (e.g., related to life events) are associated with an outcome (e.g., depression). In recent years, deep learning has become a potential alternative approach for conducting such analyses by predicting an outcome from a collection of factors and identifying the most "informative" ones driving the prediction. However, this approach has had limited impact as its findings are not linked to statistical significance of factors supporting hypotheses. In this article, we proposed a flexible and scalable approach based on the concept of permutation testing that integrates hypothesis testing into the data-driven deep learning analysis. We apply our approach to the yearly self-reported assessments of 621 adolescent participants of the National Consortium of Alcohol and Neurodevelopment in Adolescence (NCANDA) to predict negative valence, a symptom of major depressive disorder according to the NIMH Research Domain Criteria (RDoC). Our method successfully identifies categories of risk factors that further explain the symptom.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Effects of soothing images and soothing sounds on mood and well-being.
Mental health problems are increasing at an alarming rate, calling for the need for more cost-effective and easily accessible interventions. Visual images and sounds depicting nature have been found to have positive effects on individuals' mood and well-being; however, the combined effects of images and sounds have been scarcely investigated. This study therefore aimed to compare the mood effects of viewing nature-related soothing images versus listening to soothing sounds versus a combination of both.
In this study, 149 participants aged 18-83 years old (M = 35.88, SD = 15.63; 72.5% female, male 26.8%, .7% transgender) were randomised into three intervention conditions: images only, sounds only or combined (images and sounds). Baseline depressive and anxiety symptoms were indexed, and four outcome variables (positive affect, negative affect, serenity affect and depressive mood states) were measured pre- and post-intervention.
Findings showed that all participants, regardless of group, reported a decrease in negative affect, positive affect and depressive mood as well as an increase in serenity affect (including feelings of soothe). However, there were no group differences. Exploratory analyses found that individuals with higher levels of depressive and anxiety symptoms at baseline experienced greater reduction in negative affect and depressive mood state, as well as a larger increase in serenity affect.
These findings therefore provide preliminary evidence that, upon further research and development, images and sounds depicting nature can potentially be developed for use as an effective tool to improve mood and well-being.
© 2022 The British Psychological Society.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Remotely Assessing Mechanisms of Behavioral Change in Community Substance Use Disorder Treatment to Facilitate Measurement-Informed Care: Pilot Longitudinal Questionnaire Study.
Research shows that improvements in coping strategies, abstinence self-efficacy, craving, and depression are potential mechanisms of behavioral change (MOBC) in treatments for substance use disorders (SUDs). However, little is known about how these insights regarding MOBC can be applied to SUD treatment settings. One way to facilitate MOBC-informed care in frontline settings could be to measure and monitor changes in MOBC throughout treatment using brief, frequent questionnaires that patients complete by using mobile technologies (eg, smartphones). The results derived from these questionnaires could potentially be used for clinical monitoring (ie, measurement-based care) to better understand whether individual patients are experiencing treatment-related improvements on key clinical targets.
This study evaluated whether brief, weekly MOBC questionnaires completed by patients remotely can potentially provide clinically meaningful information about changes in MOBC in the context of real-world, community-based SUD treatment.
A total of 30 patients (14/30, 47% female; 13/30, 43% racial or ethnic minority) in a community SUD treatment clinic participated in a pilot study where they were invited to complete brief, weekly questionnaires that assessed various MOBC, including coping strategies, abstinence self-efficacy, craving, depression, and therapeutic alliance. Questionnaires were typically completed remotely via smartphone for up to 6 months; 618 questionnaires were completed in total. Participants also completed longer, psychometrically validated measures of the same MOBC at baseline and 6-month research appointments. Statistical analyses tested whether brief, weekly, remotely completed MOBC questionnaires exhibited characteristics that would be desirable for real-world longitudinal clinical monitoring, including a tendency to detect within-person changes in MOBC over time; cross-sectional and longitudinal associations with longer, psychometrically validated measures completed at research appointments; and similar patterns of associations with 6-month percentage of days abstinent as longer, psychometrically validated MOBC measures completed at research appointments.
The results of this study indicated that the brief, weekly, remotely completed MOBC measures exhibited characteristics that are desirable for clinical monitoring, including a tendency to vary longitudinally (within patients over time) more often than measures of alcohol and drug consumption, generally having medium to large cross-sectional and longitudinal correlations with longer psychometrically validated measures of MOBC completed at research appointments, and generally having similar patterns of association with 6-month percentage of days abstinent from alcohol and drugs as longer psychometrically validated MOBC measures completed at research appointments.
The results of this pilot study provide initial evidence that incorporating brief, weekly, and remotely completed MOBC questionnaires into community SUD treatment may be a viable approach for facilitating MOBC-informed care. Such questionnaires can potentially support measurement-based care by providing meaningful information about within-patient changes in clinical domains that are often directly targeted in SUD treatments and predict long-term substance use outcomes.
©Kevin A Hallgren. Originally published in JMIR Formative Research (https://formative.jmir.org), 07.11.2022.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Screening for Psychological Distress and Risk of Cardiovascular Disease and Related Mortality: A SYSTEMATIZED REVIEW, META-ANALYSIS, AND CASE FOR PREVENTION.
Psychological distress-elevated symptoms of depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), or psychosocial stress-has been associated with risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD). Despite increasing attention to the importance of these factors for CVD prevention, the state of this science requires updated synthesis to enable practice recommendations. Moreover, it is unknown whether psychological distress based on screeners, validated self-report instruments that efficiently identify those who may require mental health services or additional support, is associated with incident CVD.
MEDLINE, Embase, and PsycInfo were searched for studies published 2017-2022, including adults without a past psychiatric diagnosis, who were screened at baseline for depression, anxiety, PTSD, stress, or general mental health symptoms, and followed for >6 mo to determine their risk for incident CVD (ie, atrial fibrillation, acute coronary syndrome, coronary heart disease, peripheral vascular disease, heart failure, or a composite). A meta-analysis was used to aggregate results to determine whether clinically significant levels of psychological distress were associated with CVD onset.
The search identified 28 investigations that represented 658 331 participants (58% women). Fifteen studies had adequate data for the primary meta-analysis, which indicated that those reporting high psychological distress showed a 28% greater risk of incident CVD compared with those with low or no distress.
Rapid screening for psychological distress is a helpful and efficient approach to understanding the CVD risk profile of an individual. Additional investigations are needed to improve prospective evidence concerning psychosocial stress. Conducting analyses by sex may better elucidate the benefits of psychological distress screening for men and women, respectively, and encourage more widespread adoption in CVD prevention.
Copyright © 2022 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Basal Forebrain Cholinergic Innervation Induces Depression-Like Behaviors Through Ventral Subiculum Hyperactivation.
Malfunction of the ventral subiculum (vSub), the main subregion controlling the output connections from the hippocampus, is associated with major depressive disorder (MDD). Although the vSub receives cholinergic innervation from the medial septum and diagonal band of Broca (MSDB), whether and how the MSDB-to-vSub cholinergic circuit is involved in MDD is elusive. Here, we found that chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) induced depression-like behaviors with hyperactivation of vSub neurons, measured by c-fos staining and whole-cell patch-clamp recording. By retrograde and anterograde tracing, we confirmed the dense MSDB cholinergic innervation of the vSub. In addition, transient restraint stress in CUMS increased the level of ACh in the vSub. Furthermore, chemogenetic stimulation of this MSDB-vSub innervation in ChAT-Cre mice induced hyperactivation of vSub pyramidal neurons along with depression-like behaviors; and local infusion of atropine, a muscarinic receptor antagonist, into the vSub attenuated the depression-like behaviors induced by chemogenetic stimulation of this pathway and CUMS. Together, these findings suggest that activating the MSDB-vSub cholinergic pathway induces hyperactivation of vSub pyramidal neurons and depression-like behaviors, revealing a novel circuit underlying vSub pyramidal neuronal hyperactivation and its associated depression.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Disentangling Medicinal and Recreational cannabis Use Among People Living with HIV: An Ecological Momentary Assessment Study.
This study examined the feasibility of using ecological momentary assessment (EMA) to disentangle medicinal cannabis use (MCU) from recreational cannabis use (RCU) among people living HIV (PLWH). Over a 14-day period, PLWH (N = 29) who engaged in both MCU and RCU completed a smartphone-based survey before and after every cannabis use event assessing general motivation for cannabis use (MCU-only, RCU-only, or mixed MCU/RCU), cannabis use behavior, and several antecedents and outcomes of cannabis use. A total of 739 pre-cannabis surveys were completed; 590 (80%) of the prompted post-cannabis surveys were completed. Motives for cannabis use were reported as MCU-only on 24%, RCU-only on 30%, and mixed MCU/RCU on 46% of pre-cannabis surveys. Mixed effects models examined within-person differences across MCU-only, RCU-only, and mixed MCU/RCU events. Results showed that relative to RCU-only events, MCU-only events were more likely to involve symptom management and drug substitution motives, physical and sleep-related symptoms, solitary cannabis use, and use of cannabis oils and sprays; MCU-only events were less likely to involve relaxation, happiness, and wellness motives, cannabis flower use, and positive cannabis consequences. Differences between mixed MCU/RCU and RCU-only events were similar, except that mixed MCU/RCU events were additionally associated with stress reduction motives and symptoms of anxiety and depression. Findings support the feasibility of partially disentangling MCU and RCU behavior among PLWH who engage in concurrent MCU and RCU. This study highlights the need for more EMA studies isolating MCU from RCU to inform ongoing changes to cannabis policies.
© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CMOS-Compatible Memristor for Optoelectronic Neuromorphic Computing.
Optoelectronic memristor is a promising candidate for future light-controllable high-density storage and neuromorphic computing. In this work, light-tunable resistive switching (RS) characteristics are demonstrated in the CMOS process-compatible ITO/HfO
2
/TiO
2
/ITO optoelectronic memristor. The device shows an average of 79.24% transmittance under visible light. After electroforming, stable bipolar analog switching, data retention beyond 10
4
 s, and endurance of 10
6
 cycles are realized. An obvious current increase is observed under 405 nm wavelength light irradiation both in high and in low resistance states. The long-term potentiation of synaptic property can be achieved by both electrical and optical stimulation. Moreover, based on the optical potentiation and electrical depression of conductances, the simulated Hopfield neural network (HNN) is trained for learning the 10 × 10 pixels size image. The HNN can be successfully trained to recognize the input image with a training accuracy of 100% in 13 iterations. These results suggest that this optoelectronic memristor has a high potential for neuromorphic application.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Evaluation of the prevalence of the most common psychiatric disorders in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus using the patient health questionnaire: results of the cross-sectional "DIA2PSI" study.
Common Psychiatric Disorders (CPDs) are associated with the development of overweight and obesity, the strongest risk factors for the onset and maintenance of Type 2 Diabetes mellitus (T2D). To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to assess the prevalence of CPDs in patients with T2D in Italy.
This is a monocentric cross-sectional study; n = 184 T2D patients were screened for CPDs using the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ). Primary outcome was to evaluate the prevalence of CPDs. To assess association between CPDs and risk factors, we have utilized univariable logistic regression models.
64.1% were men, median age was 67 (59-64) and median BMI 27 (25-30) kg/m
2
. The 42.9% tested positive for one or more mental disorders, 25.6% for depression. Patients with higher BMI (p = 0.04) had an increased likelihood of testing positive to the PHQ. Patients who had implemented lifestyle changes (p < 0.01) and were aware that mental health is linked to body health (p = 0.07) had a reduction in the likelihood of testing positive.
Prevalence of CPDs in T2D patients is higher than in the general population. Since CPDs favor the onset and subsistence of T2D, integrated diabetic-psychiatric therapy is required for improvement or remission of T2D in patients with comorbid CPDs.
© 2022. The Author(s).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Demographic and Symptom Correlates of Initial Idiopathic Psychiatric Diagnosis in Frontotemporal Dementia.
This study aims to measure frequency and correlates of initial idiopathic psychiatric diagnosis in a cohort of 147 patients with Frontotemporal Dementia (FTD)-spectrum disorders.
Participants were evaluated at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland. Initial participant diagnoses were determined by chart review and patient and informant interviews. Logistic regression was used to assess the relationships between diagnosis and age of symptom onset, gender, education, family history of psychiatric illness, and family history of dementia. Additional exploratory analyses investigated patients' first symptom type.
25% (n=43) of all the patients reviewed were initially misdiagnosed with an idiopathic psychiatric illness, which is less than half the commonly cited 50% rate.
3
 Depression was the most common misdiagnosis (46.5%). Family history of dementia, family history of mental illness and an exploratory analysis of behavioral first symptoms suggested significant association with a greater likelihood of initial idiopathic psychiatric diagnosis in FTD patients.
This data confirms patterns of initial idiopathic psychiatric diagnosis in FTD and elucidates potential factors underlying misdiagnosis. Potential implications for patient outcomes, caregiver burden and healthcare costs are discussed.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A plastid nucleoside kinase is involved in inosine salvage and control of purine nucleotide biosynthesis.
In nucleotide metabolism, nucleoside kinases recycle nucleosides to nucleotides - a process called nucleoside salvage. Nucleoside kinases for adenosine, uridine and cytidine have been characterized from many organisms, but kinases for inosine and guanosine salvage are not yet known in eukaryotes and only a few such enzymes have been described from bacteria. Here we identified Arabidopsis thaliana PLASTID NUCLEOSIDE KINASE 1 (PNK1), an enzyme highly conserved in plants and green algae belonging to the Phosphofructokinase B (PfkB) family. We demonstrate that PNK1 from Arabidopsis thaliana is located in plastids and catalyzes the phosphorylation of inosine, 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide-1-β-D-ribose (AICA ribonucleoside) and uridine but not guanosine in vitro, and is involved in inosine salvage in vivo. PNK1 mutation leads to increased flux into purine nucleotide catabolism and, especially in the context of defective uridine degradation, to over-accumulation of uridine and UTP as well as growth depression. The data suggest that PNK1 is involved in feedback regulation of purine nucleotide biosynthesis and possibly also pyrimidine nucleotide biosynthesis. We additionally report that cold stress leads to accumulation of purine nucleotides, probably by inducing nucleotide biosynthesis, but that this adjustment of nucleotide homeostasis to environmental conditions is not controlled by PNK1.
© American Society of Plant Biologists 2022. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The indirect effect of self-compassion in the association between autistic traits and anxiety/depression: A cross-sectional study in autistic and non-autistic adults.
Previous research on non-autistic adults suggests self-compassion may serve to reduce mental health problems and promote psychological well-being. Correlations between autistic traits and self-compassion have been observed in non-clinical populations. In this study, we were interested in extending previous research by exploring relationships between autistic traits, self-compassion and anxiety/depression in autistic adults without intellectual disability. The findings revealed that on average autistic people reported lower self-compassion than non-autistic people. Once we accounted for levels of self-compassion in our statistical model, this resulted in a complete loss of statistical significance in the relationships between autistic traits and anxiety/depression. Self-compassion may be a useful target for clinical intervention in autistic adults with co-occurring mental health difficulties.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A Methodological Approach for Documenting Multi-Component Interventions Targeting Family Caregivers.
Managing the complex care needs of seriously ill patients transitioning from hospital to home can have detrimental effects on family caregivers (FCG). Multi-component interventions tailored to FCG needs are most effective at reducing caregiver burden, distress, and depression. However, gaps exist in determining best methods to assess, document, and analyze intervention components for FCGs. Common methods used to capture patient data during transitions in care may not be appropriate or allowed for FCG needs. As such, we present a methodological approach for electronically capturing, reporting, and analyzing multiple intervention components. This approach uses a standardized terminology and pathway for tailoring intervention components in real time while evaluating intervention effects across time. We use examples from a randomized controlled trial to illustrate the benefits of the current approach for analyzing the effectiveness of multi-component interventions in the context of caregiving research.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The rubber tree RALF peptide hormone and its receptor protein kinase FER implicates in rubber production.
RAPID ALKALINIZATION FACTORs (RALFs), which are secreted peptides serving as extracellular signals transduced to the inside of the cell, interact with the receptor-like kinase FERONIA (FER) and participates in various biological pathways. Here, we identified 23 RALF and 2 FER genes in Hevea brasiliensis (para rubber tree), and characterized their expression patterns in different tissues, across the process of leaf development, and in response to the rubber yield-stimulating treatments of tapping and ethylene. Four Hevea latex (the cytoplasm of rubber-producing laticifers)-abundant RALF isoforms, HbRALF19, HbRALF3, HbRALF22, and HbRALF16 were listed with descending expression levels. Of the four HbRALFs, expressions of HbRALF3 were markedly regulated in an opposite way by the treatments of tapping (depression) and ethylene (stimulation). All of the four latex-abundant RALFs specifically interacted with the extracellular domain of HbFER1. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing these HbRALFs displayed phenotypes similar to those reported for AtRALFs, such as shorter roots, smaller plant architecture, and delayed flowering. The application of HbRALF3 and HbRALF19 recombinant proteins significantly reduced the pH of Hevea latex, an important factor regulating latex metabolism. An in vitro rubber biosynthesis assay in a mixture of latex cytosol (C-serum) revealed a positive role of HbFER1 in rubber biosynthesis. Taken together, these data provide evidence for the participation of the HbRALF-FER module in rubber production.
Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Serum NOX1 and Raftlin as new potential biomarkers of Major Depressive Disorder: A study in treatment-naive first episode patients.
Biological factors are known to be important in understanding the pathogenesis of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD). Oxidative stress and neuroinflammation pathways are likely to play a critical role here.
We undertook a study to investigate two novel biomarkers - serum NADPH oxidase 1 (NOX1) and Raftlin levels - in treatment-naive, smoking-free first episode patients with MDD compared to healthy controls (HCs) matched for age, sex and body mass index.
We found increased NOX1 and Raftlin levels in MDD patients compared to HCs. Both parameters showed very good diagnostic performance in the MDD group. In addition, we found a significant positive correlation between depression severity (HAMD) scores and both biomarker levels in the patient group.
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first human study to evaluate serum NOX1 and Raftlin levels in depression. NOX1, an important source of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and Raftlin, which may play a role in the inflammatory process, represent novel potential biomarkers of MDD. These findings support the implication of oxidative stress and inflammatory processes in patients with MDD, and indicate that the deteriorated ROS-antioxidant balance can be regulated via NOX1 in patients with depression.
Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Comparison of relative areas of interest between major depression disorder and postpartum depression.
Postpartum depression (PPD) is defined as a major depressive disorder (MDD) beginning after childbirth. Wide debates aim to better understand PPD's specificities compared with MDD. One of the keys in differentiating PPD from MDD is to systematically study scientific "Areas Of Interest" (AOIs) of these disorders.
In November 2021, we performed an extraction and textual computational analysis of associated terms for PPD and MDD, using the biomedical database PubMed. We performed an undirected lexical network analysis to map the 150 first terms in space. Then, we used an unsupervised machine learning technique to detect word patterns and automatically cluster AOIs with a topic-modeling analysis.
We identified 30,000 articles of the 554,724 articles for MDD and 15,642 articles for PPD. Four AOIs were detected in the MDD network: mood disorders and their treatments, risk factors, consequences and quality of life, and mental health and comorbidities. Five AOIs were detected in the PPD network: mood disorders and treatments, risk factors, consequences and child health, patient's background, and the challenges of screening.
Limitations are both methodological, in particular due to the qualitative interpretation of AOIs, and are also related to the difficult transferability of these research results to the clinical practice. The partial overlap between AOIs for MDD and for PPD suggest that the latter is a particular form of the former.
Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Role of the AMPA receptor in antidepressant effects of ketamine and potential of AMPA receptor potentiators as a novel antidepressant.
Ketamine exerts rapid and long-lasting antidepressant effects in patients with treatment-resistant depression. However, its clinical use is limited by its undesirable psychotomimetic side effects. Accumulating evidence from preclinical studies has shown that the antidepressant effects of ketamine are dependent on α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor (AMPA-R) activation, which triggers activation of the mechanistic target of rapamycin pathway and brain-derived neurotrophic factor release. Thus, AMPA-R has emerged as a promising new target for novel antidepressants with a rapid onset of action. However, almost all known AMPA-R potentiators carry the risk of a narrow bell-shaped dose-response curve and a poor safety margin against seizures. Our data suggest that agonistic activity is not only related to the risks of bell-shaped dose-response curves and seizures but also to the reduced synaptic transmission and procognitive effects of AMPA-R potentiators. In this review, we describe our original screening approach that led to the discovery of an investigational AMPA-R potentiator with low agonistic activity, TAK-653. We further review the in vitro and in vivo profiles of TAK-653, including its procognitive and antidepressant-like effects, as well as its safety profile, in comparison with known AMPA-R potentiators with agonistic activity and AMPA, an AMPA-R agonist. The low agnostic activity of TAK-653 may overcome limitations of known AMPA-R potentiators.
Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Electroencephalography for predicting antidepressant treatment success: A systematic review and meta-analysis.
Patients suffering from major depressive disorder (MDD) regularly experience non-response to treatment for their depressive episode. Personalized clinical decision making could shorten depressive episodes and reduce patient suffering. Although no clinical tools are currently available, machine learning analysis of electroencephalography (EEG) shows promise in treatment response prediction.
With a systematic review and meta-analysis, we evaluated the accuracy of EEG for individual patient response prediction. Importantly, we included only prediction studies that used cross-validation. We used a bivariate model to calculate prediction success, as expressed by area-under the curve, sensitivity and specificity. Furthermore, we analyzed prediction success for separate antidepressant interventions.
15 studies with 12 individual patient samples and a total of 479 patients were included. Research methods varied considerably between studies. Meta-analysis of results from this heterogeneous set of studies resulted in an area under the curve of 0.91, a sensitivity of 83 % (95 % CI 74-89 %), and a specificity of 86 % (95 % CI 81-90 %). Classification performance did not significantly differ between treatments. Although studies were all internally validated, no externally validated studies have been reported. We found substantial risk of bias caused by methodological shortcomings such as non-independent feature selection, though performance of non-biased studies was comparable.
Sample sizes were relatively small and no study used external validation, increasing the risk of overestimation of accuracy.
Electroencephalography can predict the response to antidepressant treatment with high accuracy. However, future studies with more rigorous validation are needed to produce a clinical tool to guide interventions in MDD.
CRD42021268169.
Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cognitive-affective processes and suicidality in response to repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation for treatment resistant depression.
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) can elicit 45-55 % response rates and may alleviate suicidality symptoms in treatment resistant depression (TRD). Blunted anticipatory reward sensitivity and negatively biased self-referential processing may predict trajectories of depressive and suicidality symptoms in rTMS for TRD and be modulated during treatment.
Fifty-five individuals with TRD received four weeks of low-frequency rTMS applied to the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (LFR-rTMS) and were followed until 17 weeks post-baseline. Participants completed behavioral measures of anticipatory reward sensitivity and self-referential processing at baseline and five weeks post-baseline (approximately one-week post-treatment). We examined whether baseline anticipatory reward sensitivity and self-referential processing predicted trajectories of depressive and suicidality symptoms from baseline to follow-up and whether these cognitive-affective variables showed change from baseline to week five.
Anticipatory reward sensitivity and negative self-referential encoding at baseline were associated with higher overall depressive symptoms and suicidality from baseline to 17 weeks post-baseline. At week five, participants self-attributed a higher number of positive traits and a lower number of negative traits and had a lesser tendency to remember negative relative to positive traits they had self-attributed, compared to baseline.
The specificity of these results to LFR-rTMS is unknown in the absence of a comparison group, and our relatively small sample size precluded the interpretation of null results.
Baseline blunted anticipatory reward sensitivity and negative biases in self-referential processing may be risk factors for higher depressive symptoms and suicidality during and after LFR-rTMS, and LFR-rTMS may modulate self-referential processing.
Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier B.V.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The prevalence and risk factors of mental problems in medical students during COVID-19 pandemic: A systematic review and meta-analysis.
This meta-analysis and systematic review aimed to evaluate the global prevalence and risk factors of mental problems (i.e., depression, anxiety, stress, sleep disorder, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), burnout, psychological distress, and suicidal ideation) among medical students during the COVID-19 pandemic.
We searched PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, psycARTICLES, PsycINFO, CNKI, and Wan Fang for studies on the prevalence of mental problems among medical students from January 1, 2020, to April 1, 2022. The pooled prevalence was calculated by random-effect models. We performed a narrative review to identify the risk factors.
The meta-analysis included 201 studies (N = 198,000). The prevalence of depression (41 %, 95 % CI, 37-45 %,), anxiety (38 %,95 % CI, 34 %-42 %), stress (34 %, 95 % CI, 27 %-42 %), sleep disorder (52 %, 95 % CI, 44 %-60 %), psychological distress (58 %, 95 % CI, 51 %-65 %), PTSD (34 %, 95 % CI, 22 %-46 %), suicidal ideation (15 %, 95 % CI, 11 %-18 %) and burnout (38 %, 95 % CI, 25 %-50 %) was high. The major risk factors were being female, being junior or preclinical students, exposure to COVID-19, academic stress, psychiatric or physical disorders history, economic trouble, fear of education impairment, online learning trouble, fear of infection, loneliness, low physical activity, low social support, problematic internet or smartphone use, and young age.
Most studies were cross-sectional. Few studies provided a reasonable response rate, suggesting potential selection bias.
The study demonstrated a high prevalence and risk factors for mental problems during COVID-19, calling for mental health services. Our findings are valuable for college and health authorities to identify high-risk students and provide targeted intervention.
Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Deep Learning Method Differentiates Patients with Bipolar Disorder from Controls with High Accuracy Using EEG Data.
Background:
 Bipolar disorder (BD) is a mental disorder characterized by depressive and manic or hypomanic episodes. The complexity in the diagnosis of Bipolar disorder (BD) due to its overlapping symptoms with other mood disorders prompted researchers and clinicians to seek new and advanced techniques for the precise detection of Bipolar disorder (BD). One of these methods is the use of advanced machine learning algorithms such as deep learning (DL). However, no study of BD has previously adopted DL techniques using EEG signals. 
Method:
 EEG signals of 169 BD patients and 45 controls were cleaned from the artifacts and processed using two different DL methods: a one-dimensional convolutional neural network (1D-CNN) combined with the long-short term memory (LSTM) and a two-dimensional convolutional neural network (2D-CNN). Additionally, Class Activation Maps (CAMs) acquired from the bipolar and control groups were used to obtain distinctive regions to specify a particular class in an image. 
Results:
 Group identifications were confirmed with 95.91% overall accuracy through the 2D-CNN method, demonstrating very high sensitivity and lower specificity. Also, the overall accuracy obtained from the 1D-CNN + LSTM method was 93%. We also found that F4, C3, F7, and F8 electrode activities produce predominant features to detect the bipolar group. 
Conclusion:
 To our knowledge, this study used EEG-based DL analysis for the first time in BD. Our results suggest that the raw EEG-based DL algorithm can successfully differentiate individuals with BD from controls. Class Activation Map (CAM) analysis suggests that prefrontal changes are predominant in EEG data of patients with BD.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Saffron extract (Safr'Inside™) improves anxiety related behaviour in a mouse model of low-grade inflammation through the modulation of the microbiota and gut derived metabolites.
Treatment of anxiety and depression predominantly centres around pharmacological interventions, which have faced criticism for their associated side effects, lack of efficacy and low tolerability. Saffron, which is reportedly well tolerated in humans, has been recognised for its antidepressant and anti-anxiety properties. Indeed, we previously reported upon the efficacy of saffron extract supplementation in healthy adults with subclinical anxiety. However, the molecular aetiology remains unclear. In a rodent model of low-grade chronic inflammation, we explored the impact of a saffron extract (Safr'Inside™) supplemented at a physiological dose, which equated to 22 ± 1.2 mg per day human equivalent dose for a person of 60 kg. Behavioural tests (Open Field task, Y maze, Novel object recognition), caecal 16S rRNA microbial sequencing, caecal 
1
H NMR metabolomic analysis and 2DE brain proteomic analyses were completed to probe gut-brain axis interactions. Time occupying the centre of the Open Field maze (OF) was increased by 62% in saffron supplemented animals. This improvement in anxiety-related behaviour coincided with gut microbial shifts, notably 
Akkermansia
, 
Muribaculaceae
, 
Christensenellacae
 and 
Alloprevotella
 which significantly increased in response to saffron supplementation. 
Akkermansia
 and 
Muribaculaceae
 abundance negatively correlated with the neurotoxic metabolite dimethylamine which was reduced in saffron supplemented animals. Brain proteomic analysis highlighted several significantly altered proteins including ketimine reductase mu-crystallin which also correlated with dimethylamine concentration. Both dimethylamine and ketimine reductase mu-crystallin were associated with OF performance. This may be indicative of a novel interaction across the gut-brain axis which contributes to anxiety-related disorders.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Measurement Equality of Frequency and Severity Item Response Options on Depression and Generalized Anxiety Scales.
Rating scales are commonly used in psychological research and practice. It is important to consider how different item response options used on rating scales, such as those based on frequency or severity, may affect how they measure psychological constructs. In this study, participants were randomly assigned to conditions where they completed two depression and two generalized anxiety rating scales that used either frequency or severity item response options. Descriptive statistics and reliability estimates across depression and generalized anxiety scales using different item response options were similar. Measurement invariance tests indicated that depression and generalized anxiety scales with different item response options could be considered practically invariant. Finally, depression and generalized anxiety scales with different item response options had similar correlations with measures of impairment and other psychological constructs. There were essentially no differences in psychometric and measurement properties of these depression and generalized anxiety scales when using different item response options, suggesting this may not substantially affect the measurement of these constructs.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A Step Towards Preserving Speakers' Identity While Detecting Depression Via Speaker Disentanglement.
Preserving a patient's identity is a challenge for automatic, speech-based diagnosis of mental health disorders. In this paper, we address this issue by proposing adversarial disentanglement of depression characteristics and speaker identity. The model used for depression classification is trained in a speaker-identity-invariant manner by minimizing depression prediction loss and maximizing speaker prediction loss during training. The effectiveness of the proposed method is demonstrated on two datasets - DAIC-WOZ (English) and CONVERGE (Mandarin), with three feature sets (Mel-spectrograms, raw-audio signals, and the last-hidden-state of Wav2vec2.0), using a modified DepAudioNet model. With adversarial training, depression classification improves for every feature when compared to the baseline. Wav2vec2.0 features with adversarial learning resulted in the best performance (F1-score of 69.2% for DAIC-WOZ and 91.5% for CONVERGE). Analysis of the class-separability measure (J-ratio) of the hidden states of the DepAudioNet model shows that when adversarial learning is applied, the backend model loses some speaker-discriminability while it improves depression-discriminability. These results indicate that there are some components of speaker identity that may not be useful for depression detection and minimizing their effects provides a more accurate diagnosis of the underlying disorder and can safeguard a speaker's identity.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Unsupervised Instance Discriminative Learning for Depression Detection from Speech Signals.
Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) is a severe illness that affects millions of people, and it is critical to diagnose this disorder as early as possible. Detecting depression from voice signals can be of great help to physicians and can be done without any invasive procedure. Since relevant labelled data are scarce, we propose a modified Instance Discriminative Learning (IDL) method, an unsupervised pre-training technique, to extract augment-invariant and instance-spread-out embeddings. In terms of learning augment-invariant embeddings, various data augmentation methods for speech are investigated, and time-masking yields the best performance. To learn instance-spreadout embeddings, we explore methods for sampling instances for a training batch (distinct speaker-based and random sampling). It is found that the distinct speaker-based sampling provides better performance than the random one, and we hypothesize that this result is because relevant speaker information is preserved in the embedding. Additionally, we propose a novel sampling strategy, Pseudo Instance-based Sampling (PIS), based on clustering algorithms, to enhance spread-out characteristics of the embeddings. Experiments are conducted with DepAudioNet on DAIC-WOZ (English) and CONVERGE (Mandarin) datasets, and statistically significant improvements, with 
p
-value 0.0015 and 0.05, respectively, are observed using PIS in the detection of MDD relative to the baseline without pre-training.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Intrinsic capacity rather than intervention exposure influences reversal to robustness among prefrail community-dwelling older adults: A non-randomized controlled study of a multidomain exercise and nutrition intervention.
The differential risk profiles associated with prefrailty may be attributable to underlying intrinsic capacity (IC).
We examine (i) effect of a multi-domain physical exercise and nutrition intervention on pre-frailty reversal in community-dwelling older adults at 1-year, and (ii) whether IC contributes to pre-frailty reversal.
Prefrail participants in this non-randomized study were invited to attend a 4-month exercise and nutritional intervention following a frailty screen in the community. Prefrailty was operationalized as (i) FRAIL score 1-2 or (ii) 0 positive response on FRAIL but with weak grip strength or slow gait speed based on the Asian Working Group for Sarcopenia cut-offs. Participants who fulfilled operational criteria for prefrailty but declined enrolment in the intervention programme served as the control group. All participants completed baseline IC assessment: locomotion (Short Physical Performance Battery, 6-minute walk test), vitality (nutritional status, muscle mass), sensory (self-reported hearing and vision), cognition (self-reported memory, age- and education adjusted cognitive performance), psychological (Geriatric Depression Scale-15, self-reported anxiety/ depression). Reversal of prefrailty was defined as achieving a FRAIL score of 0, with unimpaired grip strength and gait speed at 1-year follow-up.
Of 81 participants (70.0 ± 6.6 years, 79.0% female), 52 participants (64.2%) were enrolled in the multi-domain intervention, and 29 participants (35.8%) who declined intervention constituted the control group. There was no difference in age, gender and baseline composite IC between groups. Reversal to robustness at 1-year was similar between intervention and control groups (30.8% vs. 44.8% respectively, 
p
 = 0.206). Reduced prevalence of depression was observed among participants in the intervention group at 1-year relative to baseline (7.8% vs. 23.1%, 
p
 = 0.022). In multiple logistic regression, intervention had no effect on prefrailty reversal, while higher composite IC exhibited reduced likelihood of remaining prefrail at 1-year (OR = 0.67, 95% CI 0.45-1.00, 
p
 = 0.049).
Focusing only on the locomotion and vitality domains through a combined exercise and nutritional intervention may not adequately address component domain losses to optimize prefrailty reversal. Future studies should examine whether an IC-guided approach to target identified domain declines may be more effective in preventing frailty progression.
Copyright © 2022 Tay, Tay, Mah, Latib and Ng.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The effects of Medicaid expansion on job loss induced mental distress during the COVID-19 pandemic in the US.
The COVID-19 pandemic led to an unprecedented level of job losses in the U.S., where job loss is also associated with the loss of health insurance. This paper uses data from the 2020 Household Pulse Survey (HPS) and difference-in-difference (DD) regressions to estimate the effect of Medicaid expansion on anxiety and depression associated with job loss. Estimates show that the respondents who live in expansion states are 96.6% 
more
 likely to have Medicaid coverage, and 14.2% 
less
 likely to have moderate to severe mental distress following their job loss compared to those living in non-expansion states. The corresponding numbers associated with a family member's job loss are 36.3% and 7.6%, respectively. Next, we explore the mechanisms which suggest that the economic security provided by Medicaid is as important (if not more) as the access to or utilization of healthcare. The difference-in-difference-in-difference (DDD) estimates using just above and below the Medicare eligibility age (65) confirm these results.
© 2022 The Author.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Implementation Planning for Integrating Depression Screening in Diabetes Mellitus and HIV Clinics in Botswana.
Depression is highly prevalent and, when comorbid with other medical conditions, can worsen health outcomes. Implementing routine depression screening within medical clinics can ensure that patients receive suitable treatment and improve overall health outcomes. Unfortunately, depression screening within medical settings is rare, particularly in low- and middle-income countries. This qualitative study evaluated patient and clinician perspectives on implementing depression screening within HIV and diabetes clinics in Botswana. Seven clinicians and 23 patients within these clinics were purposively selected and interviewed using a guide informed by the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research (CFIR) to understand barriers and facilitators to depression screening in medical clinics in Botswana. Interviews were recorded, transcribed, and analyzed using NVivo. Three general themes emerged: (1) Appropriateness and Acceptability: attitudes and beliefs from clinicians and patients about whether depression screening should occur in this setting; (2) Stigma as an important barrier: the need to address the negative associations with depression to facilitate screening; and (3) Recommendations to facilitate screening including improving knowledge and awareness about depression, offering incentives to complete the screening, providing staff training, ensuring resources for treatment, the need to preserve confidentiality, and utilizing leadership endorsement. These results offer insights into how to implement depression screening within medical clinics in Botswana. These results can help design implementation strategies to increase depression screening in these clinics, which can be tested in future studies.
The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s43477-022-00062-3.
© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2022, Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fronto-medial electrode placement for electroconvulsive treatment of depression.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is the most effective treatment for severe treatment-resistant depression but concern about cognitive side-effects, particularly memory loss, limits its use. Recent observational studies on large groups of patients who have received ECT report that cognitive side-effects were associated with electric field (EF) induced increases in hippocampal volume, whereas therapeutic efficacy was associated with EF induced increases in sagittal brain structures. The aim in the present study was to determine whether a novel fronto-medial (FM) ECT electrode placement would minimize electric fields in bilateral hippocampi (HIP) whilst maximizing electric fields in dorsal sagittal cortical regions. An anatomically detailed computational head model was used with finite element analysis, to calculate ECT-induced electric fields in specific brain regions identified by translational neuroimaging studies of treatment-resistant depressive illness, for a range of electrode placements. As hypothesized, compared to traditional bitemporal (BT) electrode placement, a specific FM electrode placement reduced bilateral hippocampal electric fields two-to-three-fold, whilst the electric fields in the dorsal anterior cingulate (dAC) were increased by approximately the same amount. We highlight the clinical relevance of this specific FM electrode placement for ECT, which may significantly reduce cognitive and non-cognitive side-effects and suggest a clinical trial is indicated.
Copyright © 2022 Steele, Farnan, Semple and Bai.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Quality of life, depression and anxiety in potential living liver donors for pediatric recipients: A retrospective single center experience.
Living donor liver transplantation is a safe alternative for patients on a liver transplant list. Donor evaluation goes beyond physical variables to include social, emotional, and ethical aspects. The role of pre-donation sociopsychological evaluation of the donor candidate is as important to the success of the procedure as is the medical assessment. Success implies recovery from the operation and prompt engagement in pre-transplant professional and social activities, without leading to psychological or physical distress. Psychological profiling of potential living liver donors (PLLD) and evaluation of quality of life (QOL) can influence outcomes.
To evaluate the socio-demographics and psychological aspects (QOL, depression, and anxiety) of PLLD for pediatric liver transplantation in a cohort of 250 patients.
This was a retrospective cohort study of 250 PLLD who underwent psychological pre-donation evaluation between 2015 and 2019. All the recipients were children. The Beck anxiety inventory, Beck depression inventory, and 36-item short-form health survey (SF-36) scores were used to evaluate anxiety (Beck anxiety inventory), depression (Beck depression inventory), and QOL, respectively.
A total of 250 PLLD were evaluated. Most of them were women (54.4%), and the mean age was 29.2 ± 7.2 years. A total of 120 (48.8%) PLLD were employed at the time of evaluation for donation; however, most had low income (57% earned < 2 times the minimum wage). A total of 110 patients (44%) did not finish the donation process, and 247 PLLD answered a questionnaire to evaluate depression, anxiety, and QOL (SF-36). Prevalence of depression was of 5.2% and anxiety 3.6%. Although most of the PLLD were optimistic regarding the donation process and never had doubts about becoming a donor, some traces of ambivalence were observed: 46% of the respondents said they would feel relieved if a deceased donor became available.
PLLD had a low prevalence of anxiety and depression. The foundation for effective and satisfactory results can be found in the pre-transplantation process, during which evaluations must follow rigorous criteria to mitigate potential harm in the future. Pre-donation psychological evaluation plays a predictive role in post-donation emotional responses and mental health issues. The impact of such findings on the donation process and outcomes needs to be further investigated.
©The Author(s) 2022. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The correlation between OSA-related quality of life and two mental statuses in adolescent Chinese patients with cleft palate: A comprehensive study.
To analyze obstructive sleep apnea (OSA)-related quality of life (QoL), the statuses of depression and anxiety, and to reveal the correlation between OSA-related QoL and two mental statuses in Chinese adolescent patients with cleft palate (CP).
The Obstructive Sleep Apnea Questionaire-18 (OSA-18), the Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale (GAD-7) and the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) were applied to assess OSA-related QoL and the statuses of anxiety and depression in Chinese adolescent patients with CP, respectively. Non-CP adolescents were also included in the control group. OSA-related QoL and the two mental statuses were compared between the study and control groups. The correlation between the OSA-related QoL and two mental statuses was estimated in Chinese adolescent patients with CP.
A total of 8.7% patients showed a moderate or high impact of OSA on QoL, while all the adolescents from the control group showed little impact. The mean total OSA-18 score of the study group (36.261 ± 13.500) was significantly higher than the control (28.435 ± 8.934). The mean PHQ-9 scores of the study group and the control group were statistically different (3.957 vs. 2.113). The GAD-7 score in the study group was slightly higher than the control group (3.043 vs. 2.194), while the proportion of moderate-severe anxiety in the study group was relatively larger than that in the control group (6.5% vs. 1.6%). Moreover, there was a positive correlation between the OSA-related QoL and the statuses of anxiety and depression respectively, and the differences in GAD-7 and PHQ-9 scores between the moderate or high impact group and the little impact group were statistically significant.
Chinese adolescents with CP reported a rate of moderate or high impact of OSA on QoL of 8.7%, which was significantly higher than adolescents without CP. The OSA-related QoL was worse and depression was severer in Chinese CP adolescents than in the control, while anxiety and depression in Chinese CP adolescents were associated with OSA-related QoL.
© 2022 Zong, Cheng, Xia, Xie, Yang, Shi, Gong and Huang.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Comparison of sexual function in infertile women with polycystic ovary syndrome and endometriosis: A cross-sectional study.
Infertility is one of the issues affecting sexual function (SF). Infertility is also one of the complications of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and endometriosis.
This research seeks to assess and compare SF and the prevalence of sexual dysfunction in infertile women with PCOS and endometriosis.
A cross-sectional study was carried out with a sample of 630 (210 infertile women with endometriosis, 210 infertile women with PCOS, and 210 healthy women of childbearing age as the control group). SF was assessed by the female sexual function index (FSFI). Descriptive statistics and inferential statistics were used to analyze the data. The primary outcome measured was FSFI score. Secondary outcome was hospital anxiety and depression scale score.
The results showed that the mean score of the total FSFI in the 2 groups of PCOS and endometriosis was lower than the control group (p 
<
 0.001). In addition, women with higher education (university education) had a higher total FSFI.
Sexual dysfunction rates are high in infertile women with endometriosis and PCOS. Infertility service providers in infertility centers need to pay attention to this issue.
Copyright © 2022 Daneshfar et al.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Systematic review on the prevalence of perinatal depression in Malawi.
Perinatal depression causes significant burden to women and their families during the perinatal period. However, there is no reliable national prevalence data on perinatal depression in Malawi.
This systematic review aimed at establishing the pooled prevalence of perinatal depression.
The study setting is Malawi.
Two reviewers conducted the search, selection, quality evaluation and data abstraction. Appropriate terms were used to search the CINAHL, PsychINFO, PubMed and ScienceDirect databases. The relevance and the quality of the studies were assessed. The prevalence of prenatal depression was pooled using a random-effects model, which was used to synthesise the data.
The review included a total of eight articles of fair and good quality. This review found a pooled prevalence of antenatal depression of 17.1% (95.0% confidence interval [CI]: 12.5-22.2) and postnatal depression of 19.8% (95.0% CI: 4.6-42.1) with an overall pooled prevalence of perinatal depression of 18.9% (95.0% CI: 14.5-23.8).
This systematic review provided a pooled prevalence of perinatal depression which may be used in the absence of national prevalence data on perinatal depression.
This systematic review found a high a pooled prevalence of perinatal depression in Malawi suggesting that mental health should be a key component of maternal health programmes, policies and activities in the local setting.
© 2022. The Authors.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mental health status of doctors and nurses in a Nigerian tertiary hospital: A COVID-19 experience.
Healthcare professionals (HCPs) working to save lives during the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic are under tremendous physical and psychological pressure, therefore facing the risk of developing challenges with mental health.
This study aimed primarily to determine the prevalence and factors associated with depression, anxiety and stress among HCPs in a tertiary hospital in Lagos State during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria.
This was a descriptive cross-sectional study conducted between June and July 2021 among 1452 doctors and nurses in LASUTH, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria, selected by the multistage sampling method. Depression, anxiety and stress were assessed using the Patient Health Questionnaire, Generalised Anxiety Disorder and Perceived Stress Scale, respectively.
The majority of respondents were female (72.5%), with two-thirds being nurses. The prevalence of depression, anxiety and stress was 9.8%, 5.0% and 62.4%, respectively. Nurses showed a higher prevalence of these mental health conditions as compared with doctors. Younger HCPs, nurses, those that lost a colleague to COVID-19, and those whose family members were infected with COVID-19 were more likely to be depressed. Nurses and those afraid of being infected were more likely to experience anxiety. Younger HCPs, nurses, history of anxiety and/or depression and previous COVID-19 infection were identified as factors associated with stress.
Stress was the most prevalent mental health condition with nurses being the most affected of the HCPs and at a greater risk of developing challenges with mental health. Psychosocial interventions and stress management techniques are recommended to minimise the risks.
This study adds to the few studies on the mental health of HCPs during COVID-19 and calls for in-depth surveys to understand psychosocial challenges among HCPs in Nigeria.
© 2022. The Authors.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Desvenlafaxine As the Main Possible Culprit in Triggering Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome: A Case Report.
Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS) is not an uncommon condition. It should be suspected in young patients with new onset headaches and neurologic deficits. We report a 38-year-old male patient with a history of depression on desvenlafaxine for two years and no other triggering factor who was diagnosed with RCVS confirmed by cerebral angiogram. Discontinuation of the medication and calcium channel blockers initiation led to rapid clinical improvement. The diagnosis was further confirmed by angiographic improvement two months later. Although the association of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI)/ serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRI) with RCVS has been reported frequently, desvenlafaxine is a much less reported trigger, with only nine cases in total. In contrast to prior reported cases where the time from exposure to onset of RCVS was weeks to months, the time interval, in this case, was two years. This case report aims to support previous literature in suggestion of this association.
Copyright © 2022, Abu-Abaa et al.
