What poo tells us: wastewater surveillance comes of age amid covid, monkeypox, and polio.
Rapid Adaptation of Established High-Throughput Molecular Testing Infrastructure for Monkeypox Virus Detection.
Monkeypox goes viral: measuring the misinformation outbreak on Twitter.
Monkeypox: key pointers for dermatologists.
Antivirals with Activity Against Monkeypox: A Clinically Oriented Review.
Genome stability of the vaccine strain VACΔ6.
Clinical features and novel presentations of human monkeypox in a central London centre during the 2022 outbreak: descriptive case series.
The first case of monkeypox virus infection detected in Taiwan: awareness and preparation.
Monkeypox virus containment: the application of ring vaccination and possible challenges.
Ophthalmic manifestations of monkeypox virus.
The WHO Declaration of Monkeypox as a Global Public Health Emergency.
The potential impact of monkeypox infection and vaccination on blood donor deferrals and the blood supply.
[Learning from the past: the history of human monkeypox and the atypical multi-country outbreak in 2022].
Is China ready for monkeypox?
Monkeypox: A Contemporary Review for Healthcare Professionals.
Protective Human Anti-Poxvirus Monoclonal Antibodies Are Generated from Rare Memory B Cells Isolated by Multicolor Antigen Tetramers.
Monkeypox: Another Sexually Transmitted Infection?
Knowledge of Human Monkeypox and Its Relation to Conspiracy Beliefs among Students in Jordanian Health Schools: Filling the Knowledge Gap on Emerging Zoonotic Viruses.
Monkeypox: A New Threat?
Monkeypox: wealthy countries must avoid their COVID-19 mistakes.
Monkeypox: WHO declares a public health emergency of international concern.
Expanding Monkeypox Testing.
Monkeypox Vaccination in the Republic of Korea: Identifying the High-Risk Target Group.
Monkeypox declared a global emergency: will it help contain the outbreak?
When a Neglected Tropical Disease Goes Global: Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices of Italian Physicians towards Monkeypox, Preliminary Results.
Monkeypox outbreak 2022: an unusual case of peritonsillar abscess in a person previously vaccinated against smallpox.
[Perspectives on recent monkeypox outbreak in non-endemic areas].
Emergence potential of monkeypox in the Western Pacific Region, July 2022.
Monkeypox claims new victims: the outbreak in men who have sex with men.
Monkeypox: New clinical symptoms are identified in confirmed cases.
Monkeypox Virus Infection in Humans across 16 Countries - April-June 2022.
Paediatric monkeypox patient with unknown source of infection, the Netherlands, June 2022.
Monkeypox: Prioritizing public health through early intervention and treatment.
Monkeypox- a menacing challenge or an endemic?
Monkeypox virus: A spreading threat for Pakistan?
The outbreak of monkeypox 2022: An overview.
Human monkeypox expansion from the endemic to non-endemic regions: Control measures.
Monkeypox has devastated the world; should we prepare for the outbreak of a new pandemic?
Monkeypox virus: a neglected zoonotic pathogen spreads globally.
Confronting 21st-century monkeypox.
Is MonkeyPox the next pandemic to be dealt with?
The burden of monkeypox virus amidst the Covid-19 pandemic in Africa: A double battle for Africa.
Monkeypox infection: A quick glance.
Monkeypox: An old foe, with new challenges.
A commentary on "The 2022 monkeypox outbreak: Lessons from the 640 cases in 36 countries" (Int J Surg 2022;104:106712).
Is Australia ready for monkeypox?
Monkeypox: a new (sexually transmissible) epidemic?
Phylogenomic analysis of the monkeypox virus (MPXV) 2022 outbreak: Emergence of a novel viral lineage?
Frequent detection of monkeypox virus DNA in saliva, semen, and other clinical samples from 12 patients, Barcelona, Spain, May to June 2022.
Infection-competent monkeypox virus contamination identified in domestic settings following an imported case of monkeypox into the UK.
YouTube and 2022 Monkeypox outbreak: opportunities for awareness and infection control.
Rapid Diagnostic Testing for Response to the Monkeypox Outbreak - Laboratory Response Network, United States, May 17-June 30, 2022.
Monkeypox: What do we know so far? A short narrative review of literature.
Geographic structuring and divergence time frame of monkeypox virus in the endemic region.
A prospective national cohort evaluating ring MVA vaccination as post-exposure prophylaxis for monkeypox.
Monkeypox in a 71-year-old woman.
WHO consultation sets research priorities for monkeypox.
Monkeypox outbreak in Madrid (Spain): Clinical and virological aspects.
Human monkeypox coinfection with acute HIV: an exuberant presentation.
Monkeypox and HIV/AIDS: When the outbreak faces the epidemic.
Clinical, dermoscopic and histopathological findings in localized human monkeypox: a case from northern Italy.
Monkeypox virus: a re-emergent threat to humans.
Epidemiologic Features and Control Measures during Monkeypox Outbreak, Spain, June 2022.
Cutaneous Lesions From Monkeypox Infection.
The First Case of Monkeypox in the Republic of Korea.
What has been researched on monkeypox in Latin America? A brief bibliometric analysis.
Monkeypox emerges on a global scale: A historical review and dermatologic primer.
Estimation of local transmissibility in the early phase of monkeypox epidemic in 2022.
Clinical and virological features of first human monkeypox cases in Germany.
Development and deployment of tools for rapid response notification of Monkeypox exposure, exposure risk assessment and stratification, and symptom monitoring.
Latin America: Situation and preparedness facing the multi-country human monkeypox outbreak.
Early human judgment forecasts of human monkeypox, May 2022.
Monkeypox virus under COVID-19: Caution for sexual transmission - Correspondence.
Targeting F13 from monkeypox virus and variola virus by tecovirimat: Molecular simulation analysis.
Enhanced surveillance of monkeypox in Bas-Uélé, Democratic Republic of Congo: the limitations of symptom-based case definitions.
Neglecting emerging diseases - monkeypox is the latest price of a costly default.
Monkeypox infection during pregnancy: European registry to quantify maternal and fetal risks.
Omicron BA.2 Lineage, the "Stealth" Variant: Is It Truly a Silent Epidemic? A Literature Review.
Monkeypox and its pandemic potential: what the anaesthetist should know.
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
Beginning in May 2022, a rising number of monkeypox cases were reported in non-monkeypox-endemic countries in the Northern Hemisphere. We adapted 2 published quantitative PCRs for use as a dual-target monkeypox virus test on widely used automated high-throughput PCR systems. We determined analytic performance by serial dilutions of monkeypox virus reference material, which we quantified by digital PCR. We found the lower limit of detection for the combined assays was 4.795 (95% CI 3.6-8.6) copies/mL. We compared clinical performance against a commercial manual orthopoxvirus research use only PCR kit by using clinical remnant swab samples. Our assay showed 100% positive (n = 11) and 100% negative (n = 56) agreement. Timely and scalable PCR tests are crucial for limiting further spread of monkeypox. The assay we provide streamlines high-throughput molecular testing for monkeypox virus on existing broadly established platforms used for SARS-CoV-2 diagnostic testing.
The current monkeypox epidemic is a major public health concern as the global outbreak continues to grow. We present a case report to highlight the salient points for dermatologists. Human monkeypox is a zoonosis caused by monkeypox virus, belonging to the Orthopoxvirus genus and is a close relative of the variola virus. Pleomorphic skin lesions appear ranging from macules, papules, vesicles, pustules, some of which may appear umbilicated before crusting over. Dermatologists play a key role in early recognition of new cases, aiding diagnoses leading to prevention of disease spread through identification and isolation, contact tracing and education.
Monkeypox virus is an emergent human pathogen. While it is less lethal than smallpox, it can still cause significant morbidity and mortality. In this review, we explore three antiviral agents with activity against monkeypox and other orthopoxviruses: cidofovir, brincidofovir, and tecovirimat. Cidofovir, and its prodrug brincidofovir, are inhibitors of DNA replication with a broad spectrum of activity against multiple families of double-stranded DNA viruses. Tecovirimat has more specific activity against orthopoxviruses, and inhibits the formation of the extracellular enveloped virus necessary for cell-to-cell transmission. For each agent, we review basic pharmacology, data from animal models and reported experience in human patients.
Due to cessation of mass smallpox vaccination in 1980, the collective immunity of humans against orthopoxvirus infections has virtually been lost. Therefore, the risk of spreading zoonotic human orthopoxvirus infections caused by monkeypox and cowpox viruses has increased in the world. First-generation smallpox vaccines based on Vaccinia virus (VAC) are reactogenic and therefore not suitable for mass vaccination under current conditions. This necessitates the development of modern safe live vaccines based on VAC using genetic engineering. We created the VACΔ6 strain by transient dominant selection. In the VACΔ6 genome, f ive virulence genes were intentionally deleted, and one gene was inactivated by inserting a synthetic DNA fragment. The virus was passaged 71 times in CV-1 cells to obtain the VACΔ6 strain from the VAC LIVP clonal variant. Such a long passage history might have led to additional off-target mutations in VACΔ6 compared to the original LIVP variant. To prevent this, we performed a genome-wide sequencing of VAC LIVP, VACΔ6, and f ive intermediate viral strains to assess possible off-target mutations. A comparative analysis of complete viral genomes showed that, in addition to target mutations, only two nucleotide substitutions occurred spontaneously when obtaining VACΔ4 from the VACΔ3 strain; the mutations persisting in the VACΔ5 and VACΔ6 genomes. Both nucleotide substitutions are located in intergenic regions (positions 1431 and 189738 relative to LIVP), which indicates an extremely rare occurrence of off-target mutations when using transient dominant selection to obtain recombinant VAC variants with multiple insertions/deletions. To assess the genome stability of the resulting attenuated vaccine strain, 15 consecutive cycles of cultivation of the industrial VACΔ6 strain were performed in 4647 cells certif ied for vaccine production in accordance with the "Guidelines for Clinical Trials of Medicinal Products". PCR and sequencing analysis of six DNA fragments corresponding to the regions of disrupted genes in VACΔ6 showed that all viral DNA sequences remained unchanged after 15 passages in 4647 cells.
To characterise the clinical features of monkeypox infection in humans.
Descriptive case series.
A regional high consequences infectious disease centre with associated primary and secondary care referrals, and affiliated sexual health centres in south London between May and July 2022.
197 patients with polymerase chain reaction confirmed monkeypox infection.
The median age of participants was 38 years. All 197 participants were men, and 196 identified as gay, bisexual, or other men who have sex with men. All presented with mucocutaneous lesions, most commonly on the genitals (n=111 participants, 56.3%) or in the perianal area (n=82, 41.6%). 170 (86.3%) participants reported systemic illness. The most common systemic symptoms were fever (n=122, 61.9%), lymphadenopathy (114, 57.9%), and myalgia (n=62, 31.5%). 102/166 (61.5%) developed systemic features before the onset of mucocutaneous manifestations and 64 (38.5%) after (n=4 unknown). 27 (13.7%) presented exclusively with mucocutaneous manifestations without systemic features. 71 (36.0%) reported rectal pain, 33 (16.8%) sore throat, and 31 (15.7%) penile oedema. 27 (13.7%) had oral lesions and 9 (4.6%) had tonsillar signs. 70/195 (35.9%) participants had concomitant HIV infection. 56 (31.5%) of those screened for sexually transmitted infections had a concomitant sexually transmitted infection. Overall, 20 (10.2%) participants were admitted to hospital for the management of symptoms, most commonly rectal pain and penile swelling.
These findings confirm the ongoing unprecedented community transmission of monkeypox virus among gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men seen in the UK and many other non-endemic countries. A variable temporal association was observed between mucocutaneous and systemic features, suggesting a new clinical course to the disease. New clinical presentations of monkeypox infection were identified, including rectal pain and penile oedema. These presentations should be included in public health messaging to aid early diagnosis and reduce onward transmission.
Monkeypox has recently been detected outside African countries. This study aimed to report and analyze the first case of monkeypox virus infection in Taiwan.
The global epidemiological information was collected from the World Health Organization (WHO) and US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The data from the first confirmed Taiwanese monkeypox case was obtained from Taiwan Centers for Disease Control. Monkeypox diagnosis and prevention strategies were obtained from WHO guidelines on monkeypox. Phylogenetic tree analysis and sequence alignment and comparison were used to identify the phylogeny and single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) characterization.
Epidemiological data indicated that since 2013, monkeypox has caused outbreaks outside African countries through contact with infected animals and international travels. Recently, two confirmed monkeypox cases were reported in Singapore and South Korea. On June 24, 2022, Taiwan CDC reported the first confirmed case of monkeypox virus infection in a 20-year-old man who returned from Germany, from January to June 2022. This is the third confirmed case of an imported monkeypox infection in Asia. Phylogenetic analysis demonstrated that this imported monkeypox virus belonged to the West African clade and is clustered with the 2022 European outbreak monkeypox isolates. Full-length sequence analysis indicates that this virus contains 51 SNPs, and has five variant SNPs compared with the recent outbreak strains.
This study suggests that active surveillance, enhancing border control, and the development of vaccines and antiviral drugs are urgently required to prevent and control the burden of monkeypox disease.
In 2022, the outbreak of human monkeypox (HMPX) occurred in many non-endemic countries. World Health Organization (WHO) assesses that this outbreak is "atypical". The history of monkeypox and HMPX must be reviewed to clearly recognize the "typical" outbreaks to fully understand this comment. Therefore, this paper reviews the epidemiological history of monkeypox, especially HMPX, and discusses and analyzes the atypical manifestations and the possible causes of the present outbreak based on the recent views of WHO, other organizations/institutions, and experts. The text describes the thought-provoking history of the interaction between the monkeypox virus and the human being in the past 64 years, and provides various information and views on the outbreak of HMPX, which is helpful to understand risk assessment and the potential impact of this outbreak on clinical and public health in future.
The ongoing 2022 multicountry outbreak of monkeypox is the largest in history to occur outside of Africa. Monkeypox is an emerging zoonotic disease that for decades has been viewed as an infectious disease with significant epidemic potential because of the increasing occurrence of human outbreaks in recent years. As public health entities work to contain the current outbreak, healthcare professionals globally are aiming to become familiar with the various clinical presentations and management of this infection. We present in this review an updated overview of monkeypox for healthcare professionals in the context of the ongoing outbreaks around the world.
Smallpox, an epidemic disease caused by 
Monkeypox virus is a zoonotic DNA virus (Poxviridae family), identified in 1958 in Asian monkeys (mostly 
The global vaccination programme against smallpox led to its successful eradication and averted millions of deaths. Monkeypox virus (MPXV) is a close relative of the Variola (smallpox) virus. Due to antigenic similarity, smallpox vaccines cross-protect against MPXV. However, over 70% of people living today were never vaccinated against smallpox. Symptoms of monkeypox (MPX) include fever, head- and muscle ache, lymphadenopathy and a characteristic rash that develops into papules, vesicles and pustules which eventually scab over and heal. MPX is less often fatal (case fatality rates range from &lt;1% to up to 11%) than smallpox (up to 30%). MPXV is endemic in sub-Saharan Africa, infecting wild animals and causing zoonotic outbreaks. Exotic animal trade and international travel, combined with the increasing susceptibility of the human population due to halted vaccination, facilitated the spread of MPXV to new areas. The ongoing outbreak, with &gt;10,000 cases in &gt;50 countries between May and July 2022, shows that MPXV can significantly spread between people and may thus become a serious threat to public health with global consequences. Here, we summarize the current knowledge about this re-emerging virus, discuss available strategies to limit its spread and pathogenicity and evaluate its risk to the human population.
In June 2022, the first monkeypox case was reported as imported into Korea. The general public asked whether they should get vaccinated against monkeypox because of the recent COVID-19 vaccination experience. As of the current monkeypox outbreak situation, a ring vaccination strategy for the high-risk group is more appropriate than the mass population vaccination with smallpox vaccines. Therefore, identifying the proper target group by available vaccines based on the risk and benefit analysis is a key issue of the vaccination program. In addition, the target group should be reviewed by the epidemiological situation of the jurisdiction along with the updated evidence of the monkeypox virus on transmission dynamics, severity, and fatality.
Monkeypox (MPX) has been regarded as a neglected tropic disease of Western and Central Africa since the early 70s. However, during May 2022, an unprecedent outbreak of MPX has involved most of European Countries, as well as North and South America. While the actual extent of this outbreak is being assessed by health authorities, we performed a pilot study on specific knowledge, attitudes, and practices (KAP) in a sample of Italian medical professionals (24-30 May 2022; 10,293 potential recipients), focusing on Occupational Physicians (OP), Public Health Professionals (PH), and General Practitioners (GP), i.e., medical professionals more likely involved in the early management of incident cases. More specifically, we inquired into their attitude on the use of variola vaccine in order to prevent MPX infection. From a total of 566 questionnaire (response rate of 5.5%), 163 participants were included in the final analyses. Knowledge status was quite unsatisfying, with substantial knowledge gaps on all aspect of MPX. In turn, analysis of risk perception suggested a substantial overlooking of MPX as a pathogen, particularly when compared to SARS-CoV-2, TB, HIV, and HBV. Overall, 58.6% of respondents were somehow favorable to implement variola vaccination in order to prevent MPX, and the main effectors of this attitude were identified in having been previously vaccinated against seasonal influenza (adjusted Odds Ratio [aOR] 6.443, 95% Confidence Interval [95%CI] 1.798-23.093), and being favorable to receive variola vaccine (aOR 21.416; 95%CI 7.290-62.914). In summary, the significant extent of knowledge gaps and the erratic risk perception, associated collectively stress the importance of appropriate information campaigns among first-line medical professionals.
Monkeypox is a rare infectious disease caused by the monkeypox virus, which used to occur endemically in central and western Africa. As of 25th May, a total of 219 recently confirmed cases of monkeypox have been reported from 19 non-endemic countries. This outbreak unusually takes place in non-endemic areas for monkeypox virus and has exhibited features of high risk of human-to-human transmission. Onset of multiple human monkeypox cases may be related to the decreased level of herd cross-immunity after the cessation of smallpox vaccination. Moreover, behavioral patterns in specific populations may account for the human-to-human transmission in this outbreak. Currently, possibility of global epidemic of monkeypox is extremely low, but China should be cautious about risks of importation of monkeypox cases. The key to prevention and control is to establish a surveillance system to identify suspicious cases and close contacts as soon as possible.
Although new cases of monkeypox have been expected in the Western Pacific Region (WPR) since the virus emerged in Europe earlier this year, there have been only a few reported cases across the WPR (New Zealand 2, Singapore 6, South Korea 1, Taiwan 2), other than a limited number of cases (compared to numbers of cases seen elsewhere in the world) in Australia (33), as of July 15, 2022. In our short communication, we highlight two key reasons for this: i) international travel has still not fully resumed in the WPR following the COVID-19 pandemic, and ii) local public health measures to counter the spread of COVID-19 have not been completely relaxed. We provide supporting evidence for both of these reasons.
Monkeypox has a very prominent regional epidemic. It has been confined to Western and Central African countries. Sporadic cases found in countries outside Africa generally have a history of sojourn in endemic areas. However, the recent multinational outbreak of monkeypox cases in Europe in early May 2022 has revealed a changing epidemiological trend, those confirmed cases had no sojourn history in endemic areas and with a high proportion of cases involving men who have sex with men (MSM). Among the MSM cases, many of them presented atypical clinical manifestations of monkeypox and with other sexually transmitted diseases co-infection. Combined with the high social interactivity in this community, there is likely a higher risk of monkeypox transmission in this population. Establishing an infectious disease surveillance system, maintaining highly vigilant regarding the transmission of monkeypox in MSM, and responding promptly are necessary and effective measures to contain the outbreak.
Before April 2022, monkeypox virus infection in humans was seldom reported outside African regions where it is endemic. Currently, cases are occurring worldwide. Transmission, risk factors, clinical presentation, and outcomes of infection are poorly defined.
We formed an international collaborative group of clinicians who contributed to an international case series to describe the presentation, clinical course, and outcomes of polymerase-chain-reaction-confirmed monkeypox virus infections.
We report 528 infections diagnosed between April 27 and June 24, 2022, at 43 sites in 16 countries. Overall, 98% of the persons with infection were gay or bisexual men, 75% were White, and 41% had human immunodeficiency virus infection; the median age was 38 years. Transmission was suspected to have occurred through sexual activity in 95% of the persons with infection. In this case series, 95% of the persons presented with a rash (with 64% having ≤10 lesions), 73% had anogenital lesions, and 41% had mucosal lesions (with 54 having a single genital lesion). Common systemic features preceding the rash included fever (62%), lethargy (41%), myalgia (31%), and headache (27%); lymphadenopathy was also common (reported in 56%). Concomitant sexually transmitted infections were reported in 109 of 377 persons (29%) who were tested. Among the 23 persons with a clear exposure history, the median incubation period was 7 days (range, 3 to 20). Monkeypox virus DNA was detected in 29 of the 32 persons in whom seminal fluid was analyzed. Antiviral treatment was given to 5% of the persons overall, and 70 (13%) were hospitalized; the reasons for hospitalization were pain management, mostly for severe anorectal pain (21 persons); soft-tissue superinfection (18); pharyngitis limiting oral intake (5); eye lesions (2); acute kidney injury (2); myocarditis (2); and infection-control purposes (13). No deaths were reported.
In this case series, monkeypox manifested with a variety of dermatologic and systemic clinical findings. The simultaneous identification of cases outside areas where monkeypox has traditionally been endemic highlights the need for rapid identification and diagnosis of cases to contain further community spread.
Since May 2022, an international monkeypox (MPX) outbreak has been ongoing in more than 50 countries. While most cases are men who have sex with men, transmission is not restricted to this population. In this report, we describe the case of a male child younger than 10 years with MPX in the Netherlands. Despite thorough source tracing, a likely source of infection has not been identified. No secondary cases were identified in close contacts.
On May 6, 2022 an outbreak of monkeypox (MPX) was confirmed in the United Kingdom, originating from a British resident who had travelled to Nigeria. As of May 21, 2022, 92 cases have been confirmed worldwide, from 13 countries where monkeypox virus (MPXV) is not endemic. Reported cases thus far have mainly but not exclusively been identified among gay and bisexual men aged 20-50. MPXV is a viral zoonosis transmitted to humans via contacting or eating an infected animal, and direct connect with natural host's blood and body fluids. In addition to contacting with a patient's respiratory droplets, lesions, body fluids and polluted personal objects. Symptoms including shivers, headaches, fainting, backaches, and myodynia do not have any specific characteristics making it difficult to establish a proper diagnosis. Nevertheless, lymphatic hyperplasia, one of the most common symptoms of monkeypox, can be useful for diagnosing the disease. Clinical symptoms help establish the suspicion of monkeypox. However, in the absence of confirmed diagnostic tests it is very difficult to verify the disease and determine its cause based on clinical symptoms alone. There are numerous methods for detecting MPX, involving genetic, phenotypic, immunological methods, and electron microscopy. These tests require modern equipment and expert hands, which may not be available in developing countries where this disease is prevalent. Currently, there is no definite treatment for MPX. CDC recommends administering the smallpox vaccine within 4 days of exposure which may prevent the disease from happening, and within 2 weeks to reduce symptoms severity. To promptly identify patients and prevent further spreading, physicians should be aware of the travel or contact history of the patient with compatible symptoms.
The recent monkeypox outbreak in non-endemic countries is a rare event. It is a zoonosis with clinical features similar to smallpox, transmitting from animal to human and human to human. Since 2000, the number of monkeypox cases in humans had increased in African countries, resulting in its spread to the other parts of the world. On May 26, 2022 World Health Organization has confirmed 120 cases of monkeypox in 23 non-endemic countries. The decreased immunity to the 
The monkeypox virus, which belongs to the orthopoxy virus family, causes fever, lethargy, headache, lymphadenopathy, myalgia, and rash, as well as various complications such as superimposed infections, sepsis, keratitis, encephalitis, and bronchopneumonia. Following replication at the site of injection, the virus often enters by the oropharynx, nasopharynx, or intradermal pathway, spreading to lymph nodes before viremia, promoting viral dissemination to other organ systems. Monkeypox cases have recently been brought to WHO's notice from 12 presently non-endemic member nations spread over three WHO regions, with 92 laboratory-confirmed cases and 28 cases of suspicion as of May 21, 2022. Monkeypox is presently endemic in the Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Benin, Cameroon, Gabon, Sierra Leone, and South Sudan. Monkeypox cases have been detected all across the world, posing a challenge to healthcare infrastructure that is still recovering from the COVID-19 outbreak. Close monitoring and exact data collecting, the implementation of successful programs across the world, and public support of preventative measures are some of the strategies being used to cope with the increasing incidence of monkeypox.
The Coronavirus Disease - 19 (COVID-19) pandemic has put additional strain on Africa's fragile healthcare systems and has impacted the rise of emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases. Currently, there is a rise in cases of Monkeypox Disease, a zoonotic viral disease caused by the Monkeypox virus, which was first documented in 1970 in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Most of the clinical symptoms of Monkeypox resemble that of smallpox, whose virus also belongs to the same genus. Initial symptoms include headache, fever, and fatigue, followed by lymphadenopathy and a rash. This study aims to provide more insight into Monkeypox by exposing its current burden and efforts to combat it amidst COVID-19 in Africa. Since Monkeypox disease is re-emerging and is less contagious than COVID-19, prevention and treatment are much more manageable. Still, African countries face several crucial challenges in responding to the Monkeypox in times of the covid-19 pandemic. These include lack of a well-functioning surveillance system for early detection of the disease, lack of awareness and knowledge of the monkeypox disease across the general population, lack of healthcare facilities already burdened by COVID-19 cases, and shortage of trained healthcare professionals. On the other hand, one significant factor contributing to the minimized risk in Africa was the smallpox vaccination done before 1980. However, a declining cross-protective immunity is seen in those inoculated with the smallpox vaccine and the ever-increasing risk to the unvaccinated population. Thus, focusing on vaccination and disease surveillance operations and diligent monitoring, as well as cross-border collaborations with international sectors, including One Health, FOA, OIE, and WHO is critical to achieving the ultimate eradication of monkeypox in Africa.
At first glance, a multi-country outbreak of monkeypox in 2022 seems unusual. However, the re-emergence and expansion of this viral disease beyond its endemicity in West and Central Africa had previously been predicted as a possible consequence of a decline in population immunity following smallpox eradication. Since the 13th of May 2022, cases of monkeypox have been reported in at least 28 WHO member states from within 4 regions (the Americans, European, Eastern Mediterranean and Western Pacific regions). This summary describes the multi-country outbreak to date, with an emphasis on patient demographics, common symptoms and signs, clinical management (including infection prevention measures) and clinical outcomes of the cases in the United Kingdom, which has so far reported the largest number of laboratory confirmed cases. The future implications of this outbreak, including preventative measures to curb the current outbreak, prevent future outbreaks and the likelihood of the disease becoming endemic in the UK are also discussed.
Monkeypox is a zoonotic disease with clinical manifestations similar to smallpox in humans. Since May 13, 2022, an increasing number of suspected and confirmed cases have been reported, affecting non-endemic regions across the globe. More strikingly, reports from the current outbreak reveal unique aspects regarding transmission dynamics and an unprecedented, rapidly expanding and sustained community transmission. As demonstrated through the still-ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, genomic surveillance has been an essential resource for monitoring and tracking the evolution of pathogens of public health relevance. Herein, we performed a phylogenomic analysis of available Monkeypox virus (MPXV) genomes to determine their evolution and diversity. Our analysis revealed that all MPXV genomes grouped into three monophyletic clades: two previously characterized clades and a newly emerging clade harboring genomes from the ongoing 2022 multi-country outbreak with 286 genomes comprising the hMPXV-1A clade and the newly classified lineages: A.1 (n = 6), A.1.1 (n = 1), A.2 (n = 3) and B.1 (n = 262), where lineage B.1 includes all MPXV genomes from the 2022 outbreak. Finally, it was estimated that B.1 lineage of this clade emerged in Europe on 03/02/2022 [95%CI = 11/13/2021 to 05/10/2022]. The exceptional surge of cases and the broader geographical expansion suggest multifactorial factors as drivers of the current outbreak dynamics. Such factors may include the cessation of smallpox vaccination and its potential spread across particular networks. Integrating pertinent epidemiological information with genomic surveillance information will help generate real-time data to help implement adequate preventive and control measures by optimizing public health decisions to mitigate this outbreak.
A monkeypox (MPX) outbreak has expanded worldwide since May 2022. We tested 147 clinical samples collected at different time points from 12 patients by real-time PCR. MPX DNA was detected in saliva from all cases, sometimes with high viral loads. Other samples were frequently positive: rectal swab (11/12 cases), nasopharyngeal swab (10/12 cases), semen (7/9 cases), urine (9/12 cases) and faeces (8/12 cases). These results improve knowledge on virus shedding and the possible role of bodily fluids in disease transmission.
An imported case of monkeypox was diagnosed in December 2019 in a traveller returning from Nigeria to the UK. Subsequently, environmental sampling was performed at two adjoining single-room residences occupied by the patient and their sibling. Monkeypox virus DNA was identified in multiple locations throughout both properties, and monkeypox virus was isolated from several samples 3 days after the patient was last in these locations. Positive samples were identified following the use of both vacuum and surface sampling techniques; these methodologies allowed for environmental analysis of potentially contaminated porous and non-porous surfaces via real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase PCR analysis in addition to viral isolation to confirm the presence of infection-competent virus. This report confirms the potential for infection-competent monkeypox virus to be recovered in environmental settings associated with known positive cases and the necessity for rapid environmental assessment to reduce potential exposure to close contacts and the general public. The methods adopted in this investigation may be used for future confirmed cases of monkeypox in order to establish levels of contamination, confirm the presence of infection-competent material and to identify locations requiring additional cleaning.
As part of public health preparedness for infectious disease threats, CDC collaborates with other U.S. public health officials to ensure that the Laboratory Response Network (LRN) has diagnostic tools to detect Orthopoxviruses, the genus that includes Variola virus, the causative agent of smallpox. LRN is a network of state and local public health, federal, U.S. Department of Defense (DOD), veterinary, food, and environmental testing laboratories. CDC developed, and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted 510(k) clearance* for the Non-variola Orthopoxvirus Real-time PCR Primer and Probe Set (non-variola Orthopoxvirus [NVO] assay), a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) diagnostic test to detect NVO. On May 17, 2022, CDC was contacted by the Massachusetts Department of Public Health (DPH) regarding a suspected case of monkeypox, a disease caused by the Orthopoxvirus Monkeypox virus. Specimens were collected and tested by the Massachusetts DPH public health laboratory with LRN testing capability using the NVO assay. Nationwide, 68 LRN laboratories had capacity to test approximately 8,000 NVO tests per week during June. During May 17-June 30, LRN laboratories tested 2,009 specimens from suspected monkeypox cases. Among those, 730 (36.3%) specimens from 395 patients were positive for NVO. NVO-positive specimens from 159 persons were confirmed by CDC to be monkeypox; final characterization is pending for 236. Prompt identification of persons with infection allowed rapid response to the outbreak, including isolation and treatment of patients, administration of vaccines, and other public health action. To further facilitate access to testing and increase convenience for providers and patients by using existing provider-laboratory relationships, CDC and LRN are supporting five large commercial laboratories with a national footprint (Aegis Science, LabCorp, Mayo Clinic Laboratories, Quest Diagnostics, and Sonic Healthcare) to establish NVO testing capacity of 10,000 specimens per week per laboratory. On July 6, 2022, the first commercial laboratory began accepting specimens for NVO testing based on clinician orders.
Monkeypox was a zoonotic infection, first detected in parts of northern Africa in the 1970s. Monkeypoxvirus, the causative agent of monkeypox, is a species of genus Orthopoxvirus and is closely related to long-eradicated smallpox caused by variola virus. Outbreaks in the West (in USA, UK, and Ireland) along with periodic re-emergence of the disease in parts of Africa have generated concern among global health bodies due to the existent deficiency of guidelines for management of the disease. Genetic variations and altered mechanisms favoring better survival of the virus have made early identification of the disease during screening difficult, particularly in resource-limited settings like rural areas of Africa. Through evidences gathered from experimental studies conducted after these outbreaks, the virus is known to be transmitted from several animal reservoirs along with human-to-human contact of blood, body fluids, or aerosol. Early diagnosis through immunoassays and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests, although not very specific, allows early treatment and subsequently better patient survival and recovery. Presence of lymphadenopathy along with fever, sore throat, and a vesiculopustular rash is diagnostic. The virus affects the gastrointestinal, hematological, ocular, and respiratory systems, in like manner producing afflictions of the specific system. Treatment, through experimental data, has been preferred to be symptomatic, with the aim to prevent superinfections. Antivirals like cidofovir and tecovirimat have been studied upon and used in clinical trials with favorable outcomes. Antiviral immunoglobulins have also been used with success in certain patients for postexposure prophylaxis.
Monkeypox is an emerging zoonosis endemic to Central and West Africa. Monkeypox virus (MPXV) is genetically structured in two major clades (clades 1 and 2/3), but its evolution is poorly explored. We show that the population transmitted in West Africa (clades 2/3) experienced limited drift. Conversely, clade 1 (transmitted in the Congo Basin) possibly underwent a bottleneck or founder effect. Depending on the model used, we estimated that the two clades separated ∼560-860 (HPD: 450-960) years ago, a period characterized by expansions and contractions of rainforest areas, possibly creating the ecological conditions for the MPXV reservoir(s) to migrate. In the Congo Basin, MPXV diversity is characterized by four subpopulations that show no geographic structuring. Conversely, clades 2/3 are spatially structured with two populations located West and East of the Dahomey Gap. The distinct histories of the two clades may derive from differences in MPXV ecology in West and Central Africa.
Monkeypox is the most prevalent Orthopoxvirus zoonosis infection since the eradication of smallpox. The current multi-country outbreak involves five WHO regions affecting mainly Europe. Accurate clinical and virological aspects of the disease outside endemic areas are needed.
We performed an observational study of cases diagnosed in Madrid (Spain) (May/June 2022). Confirmation from vesicular lesions swabs, Orthopoxvirus real-time PCR, sequencing, phylogenetic analysis, and direct detection by Electron microscopy was performed. In addition, a structured epidemiological questionnaire was completed systematically to gather sociodemographic, clinical, and behavioral data from all confirmed cases.
We extracted data from 48 patients, all cisgender men. The median age was 35 years (IQR 29 - 44), and 87.5% were MSM. The most prevalent symptoms were the presence of vesicular-umbilicated and pseudo-pustular skin lesions (93.8%), asthenia (66.6%), and fever (52.1%). In addition, the location of the lesions in the genital or perianal area was related to the role in sexual intercourse (p<0.001). Sequencing analysis indicated the virus circulating in Spain belongs to the western African clade. Like the other European cases in the outbreak, the Spanish isolates are a direct descendant of viruses previously detected in Nigeria, the UK, Singapore, and Israel in 2017-2018.
Monkeypox is an emerging infectious disease in Europe where community transmission is reported, mainly in MSM. The first symptom was skin lesions instead of classical fever and rash. The disease follows a self-limited course, and there have been no cases with a serious presentation or severe complications.
Human monkeypox (MPX) is a zoonotic endemic disease in regions of Africa caused by the monkeypox virus, with a recent outbreak in several non-African countries. We report a case of a 24-year-old male patient with a concurrent diagnosis of MPX and acute HIV infection who presented to our Emergency Care Dermatology Clinic with disseminated papules throughout the trunk, face and genital area. On the perianal area, several grouped umbilicated whitish papules in a kissing lesion configuration could be seen. Laboratory workups were consistent with recent HIV infection, and swab samples from the lesion surfaces were positive for monkeypox virus. We provide novel information on the clinical presentation of MPX, expanding the data pool of the clinical manifestations of which health workers should be aware.
Human monkeypox (MPX) is a rare zoonotic infection characterized by smallpox-like signs and symptoms. It is caused by monkeypox virus (MPXV), a double stranded DNA virus belonging to the genus Orthopoxvirus. MPX was first identified in 1970 and mostly prevailed in the rural rainforests of Central and West Africa in the past. Outside Africa, MPX was reported in the United Kingdom, the USA, Israel, and Singapore. In 2022, the resurgence of MPX in Europe and elsewhere posed a potential threat to humans. MPXV was transmitted by the animals-human or human-human pathway, and the symptoms of MPXV infection are similar to that of smallpox, but in a milder form and with lower mortality (1%-10%). Although the smallpox vaccination has been shown to provide 85% protection against MPXV infection, and two anti-smallpox virus drugs have been approved to treat MPXV, there are still no specific vaccines and drugs against MPXV infection. Therefore it is urgent to take active measures including the adoption of novel anti-MPXV strategies to control the spread of MPXV and prevent MPX epidemic. In this review, we summarize the biological features, epidemiology, pathogenicity, laboratory diagnosis, and prevention and treatment strategies on MPXV. This review provides the basic knowledge for prevention and control of future outbreaks of this emerging infection.
During June 2022, Spain was one of the countries most affected worldwide by a multicountry monkeypox outbreak with chains of transmission without identified links to disease-endemic countries. We provide epidemiologic features of cases reported in Spain and the coordinated measures taken to respond to this outbreak.
A rapid outbreak of monkeypox is ongoing in non-endemic countries since May 2022. We report the first case of monkeypox in the Republic of Korea. This occurred in a 34-year-old male patient who traveled to Europe in June 2022. On the day of his return to the Republic of Korea (June 21, 2022), the patient presented with a genital lesion. The results of the monkeypox real-time polymerase chain reaction tests were positive in the penile ulcer, oropharyngeal and nasopharyngeal specimens. The patient subsequently developed fever and skin rash after hospital admission. Careful history taking along physical examination should be conducted in the patients who have epidemiologic risk factors for monkeypox. Moreover, appropriate specimens should be obtained from lesions and tested for the monkeypox virus.
The current monkeypox outbreak reawakens the concern that poxviridae have a high potential for zoonotic spillover and causing a pandemic. Much fieldwork and research have been done by health care and public health workers in Africa during previous human outbreaks, and their knowledge should inform our global response to the current outbreak. However, unusual clinical presentations now have potential implications for recognizing the disease. In addition, infections from poxviridae, such as monkeypox, have common cutaneous signs that occur early, may be related to periods of transmissibility, and can leave scarring. Therefore, dermatologists will play a key role in recognizing and diagnosing infections and educating and preparing frontline health care workers for the early detection of new cases and clusters of monkeypox.
To estimate the basic reproductive number (Ro) to help us understand and control the spread of monkeypox in immunologically naive populations.
Using three highest incidence populations including England, Portugal, and Spain as examples as of 18 June 2022, we employed the branching process with a Poisson likelihood and gamma-distributed serial interval to fit daily reported case data of monkeypox to estimate Ro. Sensitivity analyses were performed by varying mean serial interval from 6.8 to 12.8 days.
The median posterior estimates of Ro for monkeypox in the three study populations were statistically >1 (England: Ro = 1.60 [95% (credible interval) CrI, 1.50-1.70]; Portugal: Ro = 1.40 [95% CrI, 1.20-1.60]; Spain: Ro = 1.80 [95% CrI, 1.70-2.00]). Ro estimates varied over 1.30 to 2.10, depending on the serial interval.
The updated Ro estimates across different populations will inform policy makers' plans for public health control measures. Currently, monkeypox has a sustainable outbreak potential and may challenge healthcare systems, mainly due to declines in the population level immunity to Orthopoxviruses since the cessation of routine smallpox vaccination. Smallpox vaccination has been shown to be effective in protecting (≤85% effectiveness) against monkeypox infection in earlier times. So early postexposure vaccination is currently being offered in an attempt to control its spread.
Monkeypox is a zoonotic orthopoxvirus infection endemic in central and western Africa. In May 2022, human monkeypox infections including human-to-human transmission were reported in a multi-country outbreak in Europe and North America.
Here we present the first two cases of monkeypox infection in humans diagnosed in Germany. We present clinical and virological findings, including the detection of monkeypox virus DNA in blood and semen. The clinical presentation and medical history of our patients suggest close physical contact during sexual interactions as the route of infection.
Monkeypox requires rapid diagnosis and prompt public health response. The disease should be considered in the current situation especially the differential diagnosis of vesicular or pustular rash, particularly in patients with frequent sexual contacts. Most importantly, it is essential to raise awareness among all health professionals for the rapid and correct recognition and diagnosis of this disease, which is probably still underreported in Europe (Adler et al. in Lancet Infect Dis https://doi.org/10.1016/s1473-3099(22)00228-6 , 2022).
Public health authorities recommend symptom monitoring of healthcare personnel (HCP) after defined exposures to monkeypox. We report on the rapid development and implementation of mobile responsive survey solutions for notification of possible exposure, exposure risk assessment and stratification, and symptom monitoring.
An academic health center in Boston, Massachusetts, after admission of first diagnosed case of monkeypox in the United States during the current global outbreak.
Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap) design and programmers, infection control, occupational health, and emergency preparedness specialists, and HCP with possible exposure to monkeypox.
Design and deployment of REDCap tools to identify HCP with possible exposure to monkeypox, to perform exposure risk assessment and stratification for postexposure prophylaxis (PEP), and to conduct symptom monitoring during the exposure window. Project enhancements included dashboards for HCP tracking and short message service (SMS text) reminders for symptom monitoring.
Tools to support the contact tracing and exposure investigation were deployed within 24 hours of identification of a patient with suspected monkeypox, with the full suite in production within 4 days of confirmation of the monkeypox diagnosis. Clinical follow-up of HCP was integrated into the design, and real-time versioning allowed for improvements in HCP symptom monitoring compliance and enhanced tracking.
During the current monkeypox outbreak, timely and comprehensive evaluation of potential HCP exposures is necessary but presents logistical challenges. Rapid development of monkeypox-specific solutions using REDCap facilitated flexibility in design and approach, and integration of targeted clinical support enhanced functionality.
Following an outbreak of cases of vesicular-pustular rash with fever, evocative of human monkeypox, in Bas-Uélé province, Democratic Republic of Congo, surveillance was strengthened.
Households with at least one active generalized vesicular-pustular rash case were visited, and contact and clinical history information were collected from all household members. Whenever possible, skin lesions were screened by polymerase chain reaction for the monkeypox virus, followed by the varicella-zoster virus, when negative for the former.
Polymerase chain reaction results were obtained for 77 suspected cases, distributed in 138 households, of which 27.3% were positive for monkeypox, 58.4% positive for chickenpox, and 14.3% negative for both. Confirmed monkeypox cases presented more often with monomorphic skin lesions on the palms of the hands and on the soles of the feet. Integrating these three features into the case definition raised the specificity to 85% but would miss 50% of true monkeypox cases. A predictive model fit on patient demographics and symptoms had 97% specificity and 80% sensitivity but only 80% and 33% in predicting out-of-sample cases.
Few discriminating features were identified and the performance of clinical case definitions was suboptimal. Rapid field diagnostics are needed to optimize worldwide early detection and surveillance of monkeypox.
The epidemic curve of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is silently rising again. Worldwide, the dominant SARS-CoV-2 variant of concern (VOC) is Omicron, and its virological characteristics, such as transmissibility, pathogenicity, and resistance to both vaccine- and infection-induced immunity as well as antiviral drugs, are an urgent public health concern. The Omicron variant has five major sub-lineages; as of February 2022, the BA.2 lineage has been detected in several European and Asian countries, becoming the predominant variant and the real antagonist of the ongoing surge. Hence, although global attention is currently focused on dramatic, historically significant events and the multi-country monkeypox outbreak, this new epidemic is unlikely to fade away in silence. Many aspects of this lineage are still unclear and controversial, but its apparent replication advantage and higher transmissibility, as well as its ability to escape neutralizing antibodies induced by vaccination and previous infection, are rising global concerns. Herein, we review the latest publications and the most recent available literature on the BA.2 lineage of the Omicron variant.
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
Germany
SARS-CoV-2
cobas
high-throughput PCR testing
molecular diagnostics
monkeypox virus
viruses
zoonoses
Monkeypox
concern
global
reemerging
zoonosis
Monkeypox
brincidofovir
cidofovir
tecovirimat
genome stability
targeted gene inactivation
transient dominant selection
vaccinia virus
First case
Imported infection
Monkeypox
Single nucleotide polymorphism
Taiwan
Monkeypox
ring vaccination
History
Human monkeypox
Monkeypox
Outbreak
emerging infectious diseases
monkeypox
outbreak
A33
Orthopoxvirus
human antibody
subunit vaccine
tetramer
Orthopoxviruses
attitude
biological warfare
conspiracy theory
lockdown
preventive behavior
rumors
2022 MPXV outbreak
MPXV
emerging viruses
monkeypox
zoonosis
Diseases
Public health
Virology
Korea
Monkeypox
Risk Assessment
Smallpox Vaccine
Vaccination
Government
Public health
Vaccines
attitudes
knowledge
monkeypox virus
practices
smallpox
vaccine hesitancy
variola
Monkeypox
atypical
cervical lymphadenopathy
peritonsillar abscess
COVID-19
International travel
Monkeypox
Infectious diseases
Men have sex with men
Monkeypox
Public health
Monkeypox
Netherlands
child
whole genome sequencing
Antiviral
COVID-19
Control
Monkeypox
Public health
Transmission
Treatment
Monkeypox virus
Orthopoxviral
Smallpox vaccines
Monkeypox
Outbreak
Smallpox
Zoonosis
Epidemic
Infection
Public health
Vaccination
Virology
Zoonosis
COVID-19
Healthcare system
Monkeypox
Outbreak
Prevention
Africa2
COVID-19
Monkeypox virus
Pandemic
Infectious diseases
Poxviridae infections
B.1 lineage
Monkeypox virus
Outbreak
Phylogenomic analysis
PCR
monkeypox
outbreak
saliva
semen
shedding
Monkeypox virus
Orthopoxvirus
molecular dating
population structure
Clinical trials
Public health
Vaccines
Virology
Communicable diseases
Emerging
Monkeypox
HIV
Monkeypox
disease outbreak
Antiviral drugs
Monkeypox virus (MPXV)
Orthopoxvirus
Smallpox vaccine
MSM
Spain
bioterrorism and preparedness
control measures
epidemiologic features
men who have had sex with men
monkeypox
monkeypox viruses
multicountry
outbreak
response
viruses
zoonoses
Diagnosis
Monkeypox
Republic of Korea
complex medical dermatology
dermatology
infectious disease
monkeypox
pandemic
poxviridae
Basic reproductive number
Branching process
Epidemic
Monkeypox
Outbreak
Blood
Efflorescence
Germany
HIV
Monkeypox
Semen
Skin lesion
Chickenpox
Democratic Republic of Congo
Diagnostic
Monkeypox
Orthopoxvirus
BA.2
Omicron
XE
lineage
recombinant variant
stealth variant
brincidofovir
human monkeypox
infection prevention and control
intensive care unit
monkeypox virus
tecovirimat
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
