The corona blues according to daily life changes by COVID-19: A partial least squares regression model.
Support for regulation versus compliance: Face masks during COVID-19.
Prospect of Herbal Medication as Prevention against COVID Variants.
A Case of Recurrent Myocarditis after COVID-19 Vaccination due to Acute Myeloid Leukemia.
The Association between Allergic Rhinitis and COVID-19: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.
Impact of social determinants on COVID-19 infections: a comprehensive study from Saudi Arabia governorates.
Dead Ends and Blind Spots in the European Semester: The Epistemological Foundation of the Crisis in Social Reproduction.
Acute Myocarditis - a new manifestation of Monkeypox infection?
Farm resilience during the COVID-19 pandemic: The case of California direct market farmers.
Effect of COVID-19 inpatients with cognitive decline on discharge after the quarantine period: A retrospective cohort study.
Tracking machine learning models for pandemic scenarios: a systematic review of machine learning models that predict local and global evolution of pandemics.
Membrane attachment and fusion of HIV-1, influenza A, and SARS-CoV-2: resolving the mechanisms with biophysical methods.
Culture, Political Order, and COVID-19 Mortality.
Characterization of exogenous αSN response genes and their relation to Parkinson's disease using network analyses.
Atovaquone for treatment of COVID-19: A prospective randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial.
Potential therapeutic strategies for quercetin targeting critical pathological mechanisms associated with colon adenocarcinoma and COVID-19.
An electrochemical biosensor for SARS-CoV-2 detection via its papain-like cysteine protease and the protease inhibitor screening.
A comprehensive review on facemask manufacturing, testing, and its environmental impacts.
Investigating how COVID-19 has challenged the Eurocentric concept of 'development': a case for sustainable food systems in the UK.
Service failures in times of crisis: An analysis of eWOM emotionality.
COVID-19 pandemic and financial innovations.
Teachers' Experiences with and Perceptions of Virtual Manipulatives Following the COVID-19 Pandemic.
A Case Report on Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome After COVID-19 Infection in a 12-Year-Old Child.
From Diagnosis to Therapy: The Role of Virtual and Augmented Reality in Orthopaedic Trauma Surgery.
Dengue Fever, Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever, and COVID-19 Triple Co-infection: Out of the Frying Pan Into the Fire.
Ileocolic Thrombophlebitis and Lymphadenitis Mimicking Acute Appendicitis as a Late Manifestation in a COVID-19 Patient: A Case Report.
Subacute Cardiac Tamponade in a COVID-19 Patient Despite Negative Testing.
The Musculoskeletal Manifestations of COVID-19: A Narrative Review Article.
Neonatal Outcome Associated With Maternal COVID-19 Infection in Adolescent Patients.
COVID-19 and Sepsis in an Atypical Case of Mixed Connective Tissue Disorder Presenting With a Myasthenic Crisis.
Post-COVID-19 Vaccine Limbic Encephalitis: A Case Report.
The selective effect of lockdown experience on citizens' perspectives: A multilevel, multiple informant approach to personal and community resilience during COVID-19 pandemic.
Prosocial rule breaking, ingroups and social norms: Parental decision-making about COVID-19 rule breaking in the UK.
Clinical Performance of Rapid Antigen Tests for the Detection of SARS-CoV-2 Infection in the Emergency Department and Community: A Retrospective Study.
Achieving sustainability: Determinants of conscious green purchasing behavior during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Functional Endoscopic Sinus Surgery and Recurrence of Post-COVID Mucormycosis.
Outcome of Open Surgery in Disease Progression of Post-COVID Rhinomaxillary Mucormycosis Treated by Functional Endoscopic Sinus Surgery and Proposed Evaluation Scale for Maxillary Sinus Disease and Osteomyelitis.
Open innovation during the COVID-19 pandemic policy responses in South Africa and Kenya.
What makes residents more willing to participate in source separation of waste masks under the COVID-19 pandemic?
Acceptance of online education in China: A reassessment in light of changed circumstances due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Cross-attention PHV: Prediction of human and virus protein-protein interactions using cross-attention-based neural networks.
Ageism toward older adults during the COVID-19 pandemic: Intergenerational conflict and support.
"Me Cuesta Mucho": Latina immigrant mothers navigating remote learning and caregiving during COVID-19.
Eradicating ageism through social campaigns: An Israeli case study in the shadows of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Older adults' perceptions and experiences of ageism during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The impact of COVID-19 on domestic violence agency functioning: A case study.
Age discrimination, the right to life, and COVID-19 vaccination in countries with limited resources.
"You are stealing our present": Younger people's ageism towards older people predicts attitude towards age-based COVID-19 restriction measures.
Perceptions of societal ageism and declines in subjective memory during the COVID-19 pandemic: Longitudinal evidence from US adults aged ≥55 years.
Is Protecting Older Adults from COVID-19 Ageism? A Comparative Cross-cultural Constructive Grounded Theory from the United Kingdom and Colombia.
Reducing ageism toward older adults and highlighting older adults as contributors during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Two sides of the same coin: A mixed methods study of Black mothers' experiences with violence, stressors, parenting, and coping during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Intergenerational programming during the pandemic: Transformation during (constantly) changing times.
[Recurrent, severe epistaxis in COVID-19 patients].
Effects of COVID-19 Pandemic on Nutritional Status, Feeding Practices, and Access to Food Among Infants and Children in Lower and Middle-Income Countries: a Narrative Review.
Beliefs, emotions, and usage of information and communication technologies in distance learning during the COVID-19 pandemic: Health sciences students' perspectives.
[Open data for monitoring COVID-19 in Spain: descriptive study].
Persistent erythematous candidiasis as a sequela after SARS-CoV-2 infection: A case report.
Policy styles and pandemic management: The case of Turkey.
After the "honeymoon", what is next? COVID-19 policies in Europe beyond the first wave.
Effect of Coronavirus Disease-2019 Infection on Left Atrial Functions.
Abnormal Longitudinal Strain Reduction of Basal Left Ventricular Segments in Patients Recovered of COVID-19.
Incidental Echocardiographic Finding of a Membranous Ventricular Septal Aneurysm in an 18-Year-Old Asymptomatic Athlete.
COVID-19 and China commodity price jump behavior: An information spillover and wavelet coherency analysis.
Immediate hypersensitivity to COVID-19 vaccines: Focus on biological diagnosis.
Tracing and testing multiple generations of contacts to COVID-19 cases: cost-benefit trade-offs.
Modelling of spatial infection spread through heterogeneous population: from lattice to partial differential equation models.
Techniques for analytical estimation of COVID-19 clinical candidate, niclosamide in pharmaceutical and biomedical samples.
Do masks affect social interaction?
I hate you when I am anxious: Anxiety during the COVID-19 epidemic and ideological hostility.
I love you too much to keep social distance: Closeness in relationships and (dis)engagement in preventive behaviors during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Asymmetrical friendships? People are willing to risk COVID-19 infection from friends but are reluctant to pass it on to them.
Malaria attack and COVID-19 pandemic: Is it a double burdening public health concern?
Advances on concrete strength properties after adding polypropylene fibers from health personal protective equipment (PPE) of COVID-19: Implication on waste management and sustainable environment.
Data-assimilation and state estimation for contact-based spreading processes using the ensemble kalman filter: Application to COVID-19.
On fractal-fractional Covid-19 mathematical model.
Chorea as a Post-COVID-19 Complication.
[Development of specific guidance for the safe opening and operation of recreational destinations under pandemic conditions].
Quantifying the dynamic transmission of COVID-19 asymptomatic and symptomatic infections: Evidence from four Chinese regions.
Adaptation of medical laboratory scientists to workplace hazards - experiences from the COVID-19 pandemic.
Breakthrough cases of Omicron and Delta variants of SARS-CoV-2 during the fifth wave in Pakistan.
Evaluating the role of SARS-CoV-2 target genes based on two nucleic acid assay kits.
Organizational responses to the COVID-19 pandemic in Victoria, Australia: A qualitative study across four healthcare settings.
The influence of college students' academic stressors on mental health during COVID-19: The mediating effect of social support, social well-being, and self-identity.
Occupational benefit perception of acute and critical care nurses: A qualitative meta-synthesis.
Indoor thermal comfort in a rural dwelling in southwest China.
Effect of breathing intervention in patients with COVID and healthcare workers.
An empirical study of the effect of a flooding event caused by extreme rainfall on preventive behaviors against COVID-19.
COVID-19-related stigma and its relationship with mental wellbeing: A cross-sectional analysis of a cohort study in Japan.
Insomnia and sleep duration on COVID-19 susceptibility and hospitalization: A Mendelian randomization study.
Novel in-home COVID-19 vaccination program for vulnerable populations using public-private collaboration.
Knowledge, attitude, and intention to accept COVID-19 vaccine among patients with chronic diseases in southern Ethiopia: Multi-center study.
Related Risk Factors of Early Childhood Caries in Zhejiang Province, China During the COVID-19 Pandemic.
Local socio-structural predictors of COVID-19 incidence in Germany.
Investigation of comorbidities of COVID-19 patients with hepatosteatosis using latent class analysis.
Mental health disparities in Latinx immigrant communities residing in the United States during COVID-19: Implications for policy and practice.
Perceptions of undergraduate nursing students toward providing care to COVID-19 patients.
Editorial: Insights in coronavirus disease (COVID-19) - surveillance, prevention and treatment.
Social determinants and adherence to recommended COVID-19 vaccination among the Arab ethnic minority: A syndemics framework.
The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on job satisfaction among professionally active nurses in five European countries.
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
This study identifies determinants of the variation in depression resulting from COVID-19, specifies in detail the changes to daily life, and then compares the determinants' magnitude. The determinants were combined into three groups: first, the unpredictability of the disease and side effects by its response measures (specifically, restrictions on the freedom of movement and strain on social relationships); second, (mis)information through social media, public authorities, and mass media; and third, income reductions and other sociodemographic factors. Daily life changes were divided into four categories: travel/mobility, time at home (alone and with family), domestic activities (remote work, online shopping, food deliveries, reading, and online networking), and conflicts (with family and neighbors). We measured the total 29 predictors using data from the 2020 Seoul Survey, which is based on face-to-face interviews with a probability sample of adult residents. We made our estimations using partial least squares regression, which can analyze all original variables regardless of collinearity. The regression model found that major stressors include declines in out-of-home offline networking and the rise of domestic activities-and subsequent conflicts with family-restrictions on mobility (specifically, those of leisure travel), and income reductions. In contrast, changes to working and shopping (to remote work and online shopping) rather than leisure increased uses of private transportation modes. Moreover, we found influences of all forms of communications and media to be insignificant. We shall also provide a discussion on policy and academic implications of the findings.
Wearing masks could still be one of the few non-pharmaceutical interventions for controlling the pandemic. There are people who wear them and people who don't, but this framing to be overly simplistic. We aim to chart the contradictions in attitudes and behavior regarding mask wearing and describe the messaging challenge that these generate.
Our data come from a survey administered to a nationally representative sample of 2000 respondents from the YouGov panel of US households in August-September 2020.
Respondents were asked whether they wear a facemask when they go outside their home since the COVID-19 epidemic began and whether they support or oppose your municipal government passing the mask wearing regulation. We also collected respondents' demographic and economic characteristics, knowledge regarding the facts of COVID-19 and political ideology.
A substantial majority of Americans (60%) both favor a masking requirement and are themselves wearing masks, while 13% oppose a mask mandate and do not wear masks. In contrast, the 17% of Americans oppose a mask mandate but are currently wearing one, while 10% do not wear a mask but favor a mask mandate. These two groups are distinctively different from one another and the other groups in their socioeconomic characteristics, risk perception and political beliefs.
Our study offers a better understanding of the mismatch between mask wearing behavior and compliance to the mask mandate, which will help the public health authorities to devise policies regarding mask wearing as an effective intervention to manage the pandemic.
Personal immunity frolicked an essential role in combating COVID-19 impacts on human health individually and collectively in community. Literature represented the fact about food or nutritional supplements are certified to protect against diseases; this was the reason behind public trust on certain plants and other commercial products to boost up immunity against coronavirus disease. Present study was conducted to observe the attitude of common public towards natural herbs in treating various diseases and to assess the possible potential of herbal medication in prevention of negative impacts of different variants of COVID-19 on human health at herbal clinic named "Pakistan Matab". Results concluded that most of the patients (About 80%) avoided COVID-19 testing even on experiencing major symptoms and they preferred herbal medication. Patients who died by COVID-19 were also experiencing different diseases like liver and Kideny malfunctioning; old age was another significant factor in this case. About 90% of patients were COVID symptomatic and 10% were carrying other diseases during observational study period at herbal clinic. Study represented that patients who visited clinic, have a faith on herbal medication with about 60% of patients in favor of vaccine and allopathic medication in combination with herbal treatment. Study investigated that vaccine was only for one type of variant and use of herbal medicines could be better option to boost up immunity against various COVID variants.
A 25-year old male presented with chest pain and elevated troponin following COVID-19 vaccination. Despite initial response to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, he developed a recurrent and relapsing course requiring multiple readmissions. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging confirmed myocarditis. Due to progressing macrocytic anemia, he was eventually diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia, thought to be the underlying cause of driver of his recurrent and persistent myocarditis.
Previous studies have yielded conflicting results regarding the association of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) with allergic rhinitis (AR). Data on AR prevalence in COVID-19 patients are limited. Consequently, whether AR is a harmful or protective factor for COVID-19 patients remains controversial. Therefore, we analyzed the relationship between COVID-19 and AR.
We systematically searched PubMed, Embase, Cochrane, and Web of Science databases for studies published between January 1, 2020 and January 11, 2022. We included studies reporting the epidemiological and clinical characteristics of COVID-19 and its incidence in patients with AR. We excluded letters, case reports, literature review articles, non-English language article, and non-full-text articles. The raw data from these studies were pooled into a meta-analysis.
We analyzed the results of nine studies. The prevalence of AR in patients with COVID-19 was 0.13 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.04-0.25), with an overall 
Our data suggest that allergic rhinitis is a protective factor in patients with COVID-19.
The last two years have been marked by the emergence of Coronavirus. The pandemic has spread in most countries, causing substantial changes all over the world. Many studies sought to analyze phenomena related to the pandemic from different perspectives. This study analyzes data from the governorates of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (the KSA), proposing a broad analysis that addresses three different research objectives. The first is to identify the main factors affecting the variations between KSA governorates in the cumulative number of COVID-19 infections. The study uses principal component regression. Results highlight the significant positive effects of the number of schools in each governorate, and classroom density within each school on the number of infections in the KSA. The second aim of this study is to use the number of COVID-19 infections, in addition to its significant predictors, to classify KSA governorates using the 
This article provides new perspectives on the persistent hierarchy between 'social' and 'economic' goals in European Union's (EU) economic governance. We operationalize insights from feminist economics and political economy to analyse the agenda-setting documents of the European Semester - the Annual Growth Surveys (AGS) - showing how the much-debated integration of social goals into the European Semester is fundamentally constrained by mainstream economic epistemologies. These epistemologies misrepresent interrelationships between the productive economy and the reproductive labour needed to maintain it. Using interpretive policy analysis, we show how multiple concepts and measurements used to conceptualize policy goals and impacts within the AGSs, coalesce to systematically misrepresent reproductive labour as a 'social' activity, an irrelevance, or a cost, rather than a macroeconomic input. This restricts the possibilities of enhancing the social dimension of the European Semester, in ways conspicuously ignored by the existing literature, which are of heightened salience in the wake of Covid-19.
A 31-year-old male patient with confirmed Monkeypox infection developed acute myocarditis days after the eruption of skin lesions. Cardiac magnetic resonance study confirmed myocardial inflammation. The patient was treated with supportive care and had full clinical recovery. This case highlights cardiac involvement as a potential complication associated with Monkeypox.
The COVID-19 pandemic caused substantial shocks to U.S. food systems at multiple scales. While disturbances to long-distance supply chains received substantial attention in national media, local supply chains experienced mixed impacts. As broad closures of schools, restaurants, and other businesses sourcing from local farmers removed key marketing channels for many direct market farmers, consumer interest in Community Supported Agriculture (CSA), farmers markets, and on-farm and online direct farm sales increased.
In this paper, we examine the resilience and vulnerability of farmers during the March 2020 through December 2020 period of the COVID-19 pandemic. We focus on California farmers and ranchers engaged in direct market sales.
Through a widely disseminated survey, we collected responses from 364 farmers and used these data to answer the following questions about direct market farmers in California: 1) What were direct market farmers' experiences of the pandemic from March 2020 through December 2020? 2) Which factors (e.g., relationships, institutions, market channels) did farmers report enhanced their resilience during the pandemic? 3) Which individual and operational factors were significantly associated with resilience during the pandemic? And finally, 4) how do the farmer-reported factors compare to the statistically significant factors associated with resilience? We created three dependent variables-ability to respond to the pandemic, concern about pandemic impacts, and change in profitability-to operationalize several aspects of resilience and examine their association with farmer and operational characteristics through a series of ordered logistic regression models.
Across both the quantitative models and the farmer reported factors, we found that farmers who increased their use of online sales and marketing during the first year of the pandemic, had larger-scale farms, and had more on-farm crop and livestock diversity were more resilient to the shocks of the pandemic, and that greater use of non-direct-to-consumer market channels was associated with less resilience. The characteristics of the farming operations played a relatively larger role in predicting resilience compared to the individual characteristics of the farmers surveyed.
This study gives a detailed picture of how California direct market farmers fared during the pandemic and the characteristics associated with greater resilience. As short and long-term disruptions become increasingly common in agriculture, policies and programs can leverage support to direct market farmers, particularly direct-to-consumer farmers, as a strategy to grow farmer resilience.
A new SARS-CoV-2 variant, Omicron, was reported on November 14, 2021, and it altered the COVID-19 epidemic with a different peak timing by region in Japan. Residents in the Hiroshima prefecture, especially the vulnerable elderly, were threatened by this wave in advance of many other prefectures. We evaluated the effect of cognitive decline on discharge extension after the quarantine period.
Participants of this retrospective cohort study were patients who were admitted to the care unit for COVID-19 treatment at Hiroshima University Hospital between January 1, 2022, and March 1, 2022 (60 days). Our primary outcome was the extended length of stay (LOS) in the hospital after the quarantine period (10 days after onset). A negative binomial regression analysis was performed to assess the extended LOS of patients with cognitive decline, adjusting for age classification, gender, and severity of COVID-19.
The total number of participants was 74. Per the level of cognitive function, there were 56 independent participants, 5 mild declines, and 13 severe declines. For the negative binomial regression analysis, the exponentiated coefficient of mild cognitive decline was 3.05 (95% confidential interval [CI]: 1.43-6.49) and that of severe cognitive decline was 1.95 (95% CI: 1.09-3.53).
Mild cognitive decline and severe cognitive decline elevated the risk of extended LOS after COVID-19 patients finished the quarantine period.
This systematic review aims to study and classify machine learning models that predict pandemics' evolution within affected regions or countries. The advantage of this systematic review is that it allows the health authorities to decide what prediction model fits best depending upon the region's criticality and optimize hospitals' approaches to preparing and anticipating patient care. We searched ACM Digital Library, Biomed Central, BioRxiv+MedRxiv, BMJ, Computers and Applied Sciences, IEEEXplore, JMIR Medical Informatics, Medline Daily Updates, Nature, Oxford Academic, PubMed, Sage Online, ScienceDirect, Scopus, SpringerLink, Web of Science, and Wiley Online Library between 1 January 2020 and 31 July 2022. We divided the interventions into similarities between cumulative COVID-19 real cases and machine learning prediction models' ability to track pandemics trending. We included 45 studies that rated low to high risk of bias. The standardized mean differences (SMD) for the two groups were 0.18, 95% CI, with interval of [0.01, 0.35], 
Attachment to and fusion with cell membranes are two major steps in the replication cycle of many human viruses. We focus on these steps for three enveloped viruses, i.e., HIV-1, IAVs, and SARS-CoV-2. Viral spike proteins drive the membrane attachment and fusion of these viruses. Dynamic interactions between the spike proteins and membrane receptors trigger their specific attachment to the plasma membrane of host cells. A single virion on cell membranes can engage in binding with multiple receptors of the same or different types. Such dynamic and multivalent binding of these viruses result in an optimal attachment strength which in turn leads to their cellular entry and membrane fusion. The latter process is driven by conformational changes of the spike proteins which are also class I fusion proteins, providing the energetics of membrane tethering, bending, and fusion. These viruses exploit cellular and membrane factors in regulating the conformation changes and membrane processes. Herein, we describe the major structural and functional features of spike proteins of the enveloped viruses including highlights on their structural dynamics. The review delves into some of the case studies in the literature discussing the findings on multivalent binding, membrane hemifusion, and fusion of these viruses. The focus is on applications of biophysical tools with an emphasis on single-particle methods for evaluating mechanisms of these processes at the molecular and cellular levels.
Despite extensive research, the molecular mechanisms underlying the toxicity of αSN in Parkinson's disease (PD) pathology are still poorly understood. To address this, we used a microarray dataset to identify genes that are induced and differentially expressed after exposure to toxic αSN aggregates, which we call 
Patients with colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) are at a higher probability of infection with COVID-19 than healthy individuals. However, there is no globally accepted treatment protocol for patients with COAD/COVID-19. Quercetin has been found to have significant antitumor, antiviral and anti-inflammatory effects in several studies. Therefore, this study sought to evaluate the potential of quercetin as the agent for COAD/COVID-19 and to explore its mechanisms. We used bioinformatics algorithms to obtain COAD/COVID-19-related genes (CCRG) from COAD-related transcriptome data and COVID-related transcriptome sequencing data, and used these genes to construct a COAD prognostic model. We intersected the CCRG with the therapeutic target genes of quercetin and obtained a total of 105 genes (potential target genes of quercetin for the treatment of COAD/COVID-19). By constructing a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network, we ascertained FOS, NFKB1, NFKB1A, JUNB, and JUN as possible core target genes of quercetin for the treatment of COAD/COVID-19. Bioinformatic analysis of these 105 genes revealed that the mechanisms for quercetin the treatment of COAD/COVID-19 may be associated with oxidative stress, apoptosis, anti-inflammatory, immune, anti-viral and multiple pathways containing IL-17, TNF, HIF-1. In this study, we constructed a prognostic model of COAD/COVID19 patients by using CCRG and elucidated for the first time the potential target genes and molecular mechanisms of quercetin for the treatment of COAD/COVID-19, which may benefit the clinical treatment of COAD/COVID-19 patients. However, no clinical trials have yet been conducted to further validate the findings, but this will be the future direction of our research.
The persistent coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) is still infecting hundreds of thousands of people every day. Enriching the kits for SARS-CoV-2 detection and developing the drugs for patient treatments are still urgently needed for combating the spreading virus, especially after the emergence of various mutants. Herein, an electrochemical biosensor has been fabricated in this work for the detection of SARS-CoV-2 via its papain-like cysteine protease (PLpro) and the screening of protease inhibitor against SARS-CoV-2 by using our designed chimeric peptide-DNA (pDNA) nanoprobes. Utilizing this biosensor, the sensitive and specific detection of SARS-CoV-2 PLpro can be conducted in complex real environments including blood and saliva. Five positive and five negative patient throat swab samples have also been tested to verify the practical application capability of the biosensor. Moreover, we have obtained a detection limit of 27.18 fM and a linear detection range from 1 pg mL
The coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19) is currently the biggest threat to human lives due to its rapid transmission rate causing severe damage to human health and economy. The transmission of viral diseases can be minimized at its early stages with proper planning and preventive practices. The use of facemask has proved to be most effective measure to curb the spread of virus along with social distancing and good hygiene practices. This necessitates more research on facemask technology to increase its filtration efficiencies and proper disposal, which can be accelerated with knowledge of the current manufacturing process and recent research in this field. This review article provides an overview of the importance of facemask, fundamentals of nonwoven fabrics, and its manufacturing process. It also covers topics related to recent research reported for improved facemask efficiencies and testing methods to evaluate the performance of facemask. The plastic waste associated with the facemask and measures to minimize its effect are also briefly described. A systematic understanding is given in order to trigger future research in this field to ensure that we are well equipped for any future pandemic.
The COVID-19 health crisis has imposed extensive shocks to many global systems, particularly the UK food production chains, further challenging Eurocentric development discourses and stereotypes. Thus, this paper investigates how the pandemic has challenged the UK's development status by analysing how the pandemic has impacted the country's food industry. A literature review was conducted and used to identify, select and critically appraise publications between 2000 and 2021 discussing the challenges in the UK food system. The findings reveal that the UK's food industry is unsustainable as there are significant flaws in the system, that is food insecurity and food waste that go unaddressed. The impact of the pandemic has exacerbated the social and economic impacts of operating with such a system. Compounded with the geopolitical adjustments caused by Brexit, the UK is faced with the challenge of restructuring and developing new frameworks such as policies, regulations, schemes and partnerships to support the food industry's sustainability. Lastly, the findings reinforce that 'developed' and 'developing' nations encounter similar food challenges, which manifest differently in various landscapes and contexts. Therefore, the world (not just the UK) needs to shift away from Eurocentrism, moving towards a universal but equally personalised development outlook. This review provides an outline of the major problem areas in the UK food system and presents potential solutions aimed at helping guide the government's decision-making process.
The COVID-19 pandemic continues to disrupt consumer experiences as well as service operations. Despite the magnitude of this exogenous shock, little is known about the pandemic's impact on consumers. Building on engagement theory, this study examines consumers' emotional responses to service failures on social media. Contributing to the brand equity literature, we test whether electronic word-of-mouth (eWOM) emotionality is contingent on brand strength. To do so, we analyzed 327,205 tweets directed at airline brands over the first 12 months of the pandemic in addition to data from a nonaffected period. The models show that consumers' overall emotionality in tweets was lower during the pandemic than before it. Over the course of the pandemic, levels of joy were lower while levels of sadness and anger were more prominent in tweets directed at weaker brands. Thus, brand strength still acts as a "buffer" if service failures are caused by exogenous shocks.
This study is motivated around the COVID-19 pandemic as a source of rising financial market risks. Hence, we investigate whether pandemic-induced risks can be hedged by alternative investment in financial innovations captured in exchange traded funds (ETFs). We explore the hedging effectiveness of sectoral ETFs along with a battery of robustness measures. Following the predictability analyses, we find that financial innovations captured in ETFs can effectively hedge both pandemic-induced and financially engineered market risks especially after controlling for the role of oil price in the predictive model. Our model provides better in-sample and out-of-sample forecasting accuracy and economic gains than the benchmark model and this is more pronounced for the COVID-19 pandemic period.
While the use of virtual manipulatives (VM) is rising in classrooms, there is still limited research. regarding teacher experiences with and perceptions of virtual manipulatives. Most of the research regarding teacher perceptions of VM has focused only on short-term uses following professional development sessions and none has highlighted the experiences of teachers using them during emergency remote teaching during COVID-19. The purpose of this study was to explore teacher perceptions and. experiences with virtual manipulatives following emergency remote teaching during COVID-19. To achieve this, the researchers conducted an online survey to gather data on educator's (
The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s11528-022-00796-9.
Several new diagnostic and management challenges have evolved as a result of limited knowledge about the incidence of multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MISC) and its natural history which is caused by coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) infection. There are no data on the long-term outcomes of the illness and MISC. A 12-year-old female child with no significant history was rushed to a emergency room with complaints of rashes all over her body for the past seven days, fever for the past five days, and altered sensorium for the last one day. The child tested negative for COVID-19 at first and then was found to be antibody positive for COVID-19. The child showed symptoms of the multisystem inflammatory syndrome, which involved the main alteration in liver functioning. This case is suggestive of how the COVID-19 virus causes alteration in liver functioning and its inflammation, including inflammation of other organs, which is called MISC.
By reducing procedure-related problems, advancements in computer-assisted surgery (CAS) and surgical training aim to boost operative precision and enhance patient safety. Orthopaedic training and practice have started to change as a result of the incorporation of reality technologies like virtual reality (VR), augmented reality (AR), and mixed reality (MR) into CAS. Today's trainees can engage in realistic and highly involved operational simulations without supervision. With the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, there is a greater need for breakthrough technology adoption. VR is an interactive technology that enables personalised care and could support successful patient-centered rehabilitation. It is a valid and trustworthy evaluation method for determining joint range of motion, function, and balance in physical rehabilitation. It may make it possible to customise care, encourage patients, boost compliance, and track their advancement. AR supplementation in orthopaedic surgery has shown promising results in pre-clinical settings, with improvements in surgical accuracy and reproducibility, decreased operating times, and less radiation exposure. As little patient observation is needed, this may lessen the workload clinicians must bear. The ability to use it for home-based therapy is often available commercially as well. The objectives of this review are to evaluate the technology available, comprehend the available evidence regarding the benefit, and take into account implementation problems in clinical practice. The use of this technology, its practical and moral ramifications, and how it will affect orthopaedic doctors and their patients are also covered. This review offers a current and thorough analysis of the reality technologies and their uses in orthopaedic surgery.
In developing countries, infectious diseases are thriving due to poor hygiene, inadequate public health infrastructure, and socio-cultural factors. Generally, infections are due to a single pathogen, but due to the shared risk factors for transmission, co-infections are not uncommon. The severity and outcome of infections are adversely affected by co-infection. Co-infections present as diagnostic and therapeutic enigmas because of the complex interaction between different pathogens involved and distorted host responses. The southeast Asian region, particularly Pakistan, is known for unique combinations of different infections. We present a distinctive case of triple co-infection of dengue virus, Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever virus, and severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2. The index case was a 60-year-old gentleman who presented with fever, cough, shortness of breath, bruises, and hemoptysis. He had thrombocytopenia, deranged liver and renal function, coagulopathy, and infiltrates in both lung fields. Subsequent investigations revealed a positive polymerase chain reaction for ribonucleic acid of dengue virus, Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic fever virus, and severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2. He received supportive treatment including antibiotics, blood products, ribavirin, and supplemental oxygen. He developed multi-organ failure and succumbed to the triple co-infection. This case will act as a wake-up call for clinicians, public health authorities, and infectious disease specialists to plan before the volcano of co-infections erupts.
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an infectious viral disease, manifesting primarily as a lung infection with fever and respiratory symptoms. However, it also has a wide range of gastrointestinal symptoms, including nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and diarrhea. Right lower quadrant (RLQ) abdominal pain is a common complaint for patients seeking care at emergency departments. In addition to appendicitis, the other possible causes include diverticular disease, epiploic appendagitis, Crohn's disease, or mesenteric lymphadenitis, among others. Mesenteric ischemia is an uncommon, but crucial cause of abdominal pain, necessitating early diagnosis and treatment. Herein, we report a 47-year-old man who presented to our emergency department complaining of RLQ abdominal pain following recovery from COVID-19. CT was performed due to concern for acute appendicitis. However, mesenteric thrombophlebitis and lymphadenitis in the ileocolic branch were noted on CT. His abdominal pain improved after receiving anticoagulation therapy. This case describes an uncommon etiology of RLQ abdominal pain that should be considered as a late complication of COVID-19.
COVID-19 infection has been documented to cause a wide range of symptoms including cardiac complications. We present a case of subacute cardiac tamponade in a patient infected with COVID-19 in the absence of respiratory symptoms; we also review the current literature on this rare sequela. Our patient is a 67-year-old man who presented to the hospital due to intermittent chest pain for three weeks. COVID-19 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing was negative two times. He had an outpatient echocardiogram that showed a moderate pericardial effusion about a week prior to the hospital presentation. On admission, a repeat echocardiogram showed a large pericardial effusion with tamponade physiology. Pericardiocentesis did not reveal a clear etiology of the hemorrhagic effusion but four days later, the patient was found to be positive for COVID-19 infection without any clear respiratory illness. Given the absence of other etiology and negative workup, cardiac tamponade was attributed to pericardial inflammation from this virus and our patient improved with colchicine and steroids. We, therefore, advise providers to consider COVID-19 as a cause of hemorrhagic, cryptogenic cardiac tamponade despite negative COVID-19 testing. We also review 42 additional reported cases of cardiac tamponade in patients infected with COVID-19. COVID-19 can cause cardiac tamponade even in the absence of pulmonary disease. This case and literature review highlight tamponade as a rare complication of COVID-19 and should be considered in the differential of any acute deterioration in this patient population.
The coronavirus pandemic has caused a devastating impact across the planet. Millions of lives lost and economic structures are struggling to remain afloat. Clinical effects of SARS CoV-2 virus include tiredness, fatigue, headache, cough, loss of appetite, fever, loss of sensations of taste, and smell as well as other respiratory difficulties. Pulmonary complications of coronavirus infections result in severe pneumonia with the final sequelae being sepsis, and end-stage respiratory failure. Further cardiovascular, neurological, hematological, and gastrointestinal complications build up to cause the demise of the immune system ultimately leading to death of the affected individual. The attack of the virus and the resultant reaction of the epithelial cells lining the respiratory tract have been in the limelight of most studies pertaining to the pandemic. However, a lesser number of studies have detailed the muscular and osseous pathologies that appear post-coronavirus infection. Inflammation post-infection, across the organ systems, may appear as a link to bone and joint pathology. Myalgia is a typical COVID-19 infection symptom. On the contrary, other musculoskeletal signs have very seldom been reported. Multimodality imaging techniques stand a chance at showing the diagnosis and the degree of follow-up after evaluation. Apart from myalgia, there are cases of arthralgia, myopathies, and neuropathies. According to numerous reports, there is the possibility of a link between the current drug regimen used to treat the SARS-CoV-2 infection and the musculoskeletal manifestations observed. In this study, we aim to shed light on the coronavirus pandemic and its association to various musculoskeletal manifestations, provide a different perspective of the infected patients, and address the major points that a clinician must take care while administering care to the patient. We will also address the present treatment in line with the various musculoskeletal symptoms observed.
Background Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) infection during pregnancy has been associated with high rates of preeclampsia, stillbirth, and preterm birth. Adolescent pregnancy has also been associated with various adverse maternal and neonatal outcomes, including preeclampsia, stillbirth, preterm birth, congenital anomalies, and low birth weight. Therefore, this study aimed to determine whether COVID-19 infection associated with adolescent pregnancy represents an additional risk factor. Methods We performed a study that included 17 adolescent COVID-19- positive patients, who delivered in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of University Emergency Hospital, Bucharest, between 01.04.2020 and 15.04.2022, and a control group of 17 patients who were COVID-19-negative and delivered in the same period in the same unit. In the control group, additional risk factors that could affect neonatal outcomes were excluded. The COVID-19 infection was confirmed using a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. The analysis of neonatal outcomes included preterm birth, low birth weight, stillbirth, congenital anomalies, and Apgar score calculated at one minute. Results The data from this study showed that COVID-19 infection does not influence the newborn's weight or Apgar score in adolescent patients. Also, in our study, COVID-19 infection was not statistically significant according to preterm delivery in adolescents. Conclusion Adolescent pregnancy represents an important health problem associated with a high risk of maternal and neonatal complications. However, COVID-19 infection does not influence neonatal outcomes in this population.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune illness that causes neuromuscular junctions to be damaged by anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies. It is a very rare condition that is more common among women. Fatigable fluctuating diplopia or ptosis is the characteristic early appearance of this condition. Dysphagia or dysphonia may be present in rare cases. This illness can affect any group of skeletal muscles, including those in the neck and upper limbs. It can also affect the muscles that help you breathe, which can lead to breathing failure. We present a case of a 20-year-old female diagnosed with mixed connective tissue disease presenting with acute respiratory failure as the initial presentation of MG. Clinicians have to have a high index of suspicion for myasthenia when patients arrive with fatigable muscle weakness. This will cut down on the amount of money spent on investigations and the risk of morbidity.
Limbic encephalitis (LE) diagnosis can be challenging due to its broad spectrum of clinical presentation and variety of causes. The most commonly known causes include paraneoplastic and autoimmune, but they can also occur post-vaccine. Since 2020, many people worldwide have received the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) vaccine after FDA approval. Mild self-limited neurological adverse reactions, including headache and dizziness, were reported post-vaccine. However, emerging few neurological severe events, including encephalitis, have also been reported. Herein, we present a case of a middle-aged female who presented with seizures after two days of receiving the second dose of the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine. A diagnosis of limbic encephalitis was made based on head MRI findings. It was treated with immunosuppressive agents and responded well with no additional neurological sequelae. This case is unique as it highlights a possible association between limbic encephalitis and the COVID-19 vaccine.
In the face of the first wave of COVID-19 contagion, citizens all over the world experienced concerns for their safety and health, as well as prolonged lockdowns - which brought about limitations but also unforeseen opportunities for personal growth. Broad variability in these psychological responses to such unprecedented experiences emerged. This study addresses this variability by investigating the role of personal and community resilience. Personal resilience, collective resilience, community disaster management ability, provided information by local authorities, and citizens' focus on COVID-19-related personal concerns and lockdown-related opportunities for personal growth were detected through an online questionnaire. Multilevel modelling was run with data from 3,745 Italian citizens. The potential of personal resilience as a driver for individuals to overcome adverse situations with positive outcomes was confirmed. Differently, the components of community resilience showed more complex paths, highlighting the need to pay more attention to its role in the face of far-reaching adverse events which hardly test individuals' as well as communities' adaptability and agency skills. The complexities linked to the multi-component and system-specific nature of resilience, as well as potential paths towards making the most out of citizens' and communities' ones, emerge. The theoretical and practical implications are discussed.
The British public generally adhered to COVID-19-related restrictions, but as the pandemic drew on, it became challenging for some populations. Parents with young children were identified as a vulnerable group. We collected rich, mixed-methods survey data from 99 UK-based parents (91 mothers) of children under 12, who described their lockdown transgressions. Household mixing was the most prevalent broken rule. Template analysis found that rule breaking was driven by 'ingroup-level' prosocial motivations to protect the mental and social health of family and loved ones, and that parents were 'engaged' decision-makers who underwent careful deliberation when deciding to break rules, making trade-offs, bending rules, mitigating risks, reaching consensus, and reacting to perceived rule injustices. Cumulative link models found that the perceived reasonableness of rule violations was predicted by social norms. Rules were broken by parents not for antisocial reasons, but for 'ingroup-level' prosocial reasons, linked to supporting loved ones.
Rapid antigen tests for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) detection have been authorized for emergency use (EUA); however, the performance has not been fully evaluated in clinical contexts. This study aimed to provide evidence regarding the diagnostic performance of SARS-CoV-2 rapid antigen tests compared with the real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test in the emergency department (ED) and community.
Patients who underwent SARS-CoV-2 rapid antigen tests using the VTRUST COVID-19 Antigen Rapid Test (TD-4531) and real-time RT-PCR on the same day in the ED or community from May 24, 2021, to June 24, 2021, were examined.
Paired nasopharyngeal swabs were collected from 4022 suspected COVID-19 patients: 800 in the ED and 3222 in the community. Overall, 62 (1.54%) tested positive, 13 tested indeterminate, and 3947 tested negative by real-time RT-PCR. The sensitivity and specificity of the antigen test were 51.61% and 99.44% (overall), 62.50% and 99.61% (ED), and 31.82% and 99.40% (community), respectively. There were 30 false negatives and 22 false positives. Among the false negatives, 16.67% had a cycle threshold (Ct) value of <25.
The VTRUST COVID-19 Antigen Rapid Test showed comparable specificity as real-time RT-PCR for the ED and community, but the sensitivity was relatively low, especially when the Ct value was >25. This test can be useful for the rapid identification of infected subjects in an epidemic situation.
The COVID-19 pandemic has spread worldwide, resulting in crises in public health and sustainable development. Aimed at understanding the determinants of conscious green purchasing behavior (GPB), this paper developed a comprehensive framework linking the moderating effect of negative environmental affective reactions (NEAR) to COVID-19 based on the S-O-R paradigm. Using randomly selected urban residents from China's Yangtze River Delta and Bohai Rim regions, the empirical study was conducted using 559 valid responses. The results show that media and peers are the major social forces activating altruistic and egoistic motivations, while family influence was not significant. Dual motivations significantly mediated the relationships of unconditional and conditional GPB with media exposure and peer influence. Contrary to expectations, NEAR negatively moderated the formation process of conscious GPB. The findings indicate that the influence of peers on conscious GPB through dual motivations is stronger compared to media. Negative affective reactions to COVID-19 were also found to inhibit the impact of peer influence on altruistic and egoistic motivations, as well as the path of altruistic motivation on unconditional GPB. The results of this study have important theoretical and practical implications for enterprise marketing and environmental campaigns, and narrowing the green attitude-behavior gap.
To evaluate the value and limitation of functional endoscopic sinus surgery alone for the management of post-COVID mucormycosis and need for adjunctive invasive procedure.
This is a clinical observational study that included a total of 17 patients who underwent FESS for post-COVID mucormycosis from April 2021 to May 2021. These patients reported to our institute with no improvement in their symptoms post-FESS from June 2021 to July 2021. Aggressive Surgical debridement of the involved sinuses, removal of surrounding necrotic bone and orbital exenteration (wherever necessary) was done in these patients. A regular follow-up till six months was done for every patient. Sixteen out of 17 patients did not report with any fresh complaint or recurrence.
The study included male and female in ratio of 12:5, with a mean age of 62.5 ± 7.7 years (range: 50-75 years). These patients underwent functional endoscopic sinus surgery, one to two months before reporting to our institute. Post-FESS, there was no improvement in the symptoms. All these patients were given systemic antifungal treatment post-operatively. The specimen was sent for histopathological as well as microbiological examination. All the FESS operated patients required a secondary more aggressive surgical intervention.
Post-COVID mucormycosis is an aggressive fungal infection, for which FESS proves inadequate. It requires an aggressive surgical debridement of the necrotic bone along with the debridement of the sinuses.
Rhinomaxillary Mucormycosis (RMM) is a condition peculiarly seen as post-COVID-19 opportunistic infections with Maxillary Sinus Disease and Osteomyelitis (MSDO). The open method of debridement and closed method are two types of surgical modalities available. There is no scoring method for this infection in maxilla. This paper aims to study the clinical and CT-based outcome of open versus closed surgery of MSDO in post-COVID-19 RMM and propose a new scoring method to evaluate the disease severity, progression as well as recovery.
Symptomatic cases of RMM (
The open method of maxillary sinus surgery has given significant improvement in the treatment of RMM already treated by a closed endoscopic approach.
The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12663-022-01803-5.
Most governments upscaled technological adaptations and integration into public service delivery during the COVID-19 pandemic policy responses globally. This article analyzes the context of open innovation (OI) applications and initiatives that characterized public innovation trends and impacted government agencies' responses to contain different consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic in four critical areas: economic recovery strategies, logistics and supply chain, digital health-care partnerships, and collaborations. We show how policy responses increased the uptake and upscaling of OI strategies in Kenya and South Africa. In both countries, government agencies, among other things, upgraded innovative or created online integrated portals for instant data sharing and used knowledge management platforms to monitor the COVID-19 pandemic prevalence in transportation systems and the delivery of vaccines. These enabled effective policy communication and tracing of COVID-19 patients, organizing the population for the vaccination drive, and generating timely data for further action in the four mentioned sectors.
Lachapelle, Erick, Thomas Bergeron, Richard Nadeau, Jean-François Daoust, Ruth Dassonneville, and Éric Bélanger. 2021. "Citizens' Willingness to Support New Taxes for COVID-19 Measures and the Role of Trust." 
With the outbreak of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19), the generation of a large amount of medical waste brought a rude shock to the existing solid waste management system. Since masks constitute the most common household medical waste under the COVID-19 pandemic, their effective collection and treatment can significantly reduce the potential risks for secondary transmission, and this concern has attracted worldwide attention. Taking Macau City as a case study, this research tried to identify factors that can influence residents' behavioral intentions toward the source separation of COVID-19 waste masks. The extended theory of planned behavior (TPB) model is used to examine the influence factors of the source separation behaviors of 510 respondents. The results show that the main factors that positively affected respondents' behavioral intentions toward waste-mask source separation are: cognitive attitude, convenience, and perceived behavioral control, and among these, cognitive attitude has the highest influence. Subjective norm is also proved to be the weak factor to improving behavioral intention. Policy advocacy, and demographic variables have no significant effect on behavioral intention. The results of this study can help decision makers and managers formulate effective strategies to increase residents' participation in the source separation of waste masks.
The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10163-022-01513-7.
Online education in China, previously considered ineffective, has undergone significant infrastructural improvements as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic requiring students to attend classes at home. This paper explores the experiences of Chinese students who have studied online during the COVID-19 pandemic to investigate whether the use of online education for degree-seekers has become a more acceptable way to expand access to higher education in China. Specifically, this study utilizes a phenomenological approach which focuses on the perspectives of the Chinese students' impressions from their recent experience with taking online courses. Findings indicate that while there is a growing acceptance of online education, there remain key challenges online educators must overcome to gain true legitimacy in China's higher education sector.
Viral infections represent a major health concern worldwide. The alarming rate at which SARS-CoV-2 spreads, for example, led to a worldwide pandemic. Viruses incorporate genetic material into the host genome to hijack host cell functions such as the cell cycle and apoptosis. In these viral processes, protein-protein interactions (PPIs) play critical roles. Therefore, the identification of PPIs between humans and viruses is crucial for understanding the infection mechanism and host immune responses to viral infections and for discovering effective drugs. Experimental methods including mass spectrometry-based proteomics and yeast two-hybrid assays are widely used to identify human-virus PPIs, but these experimental methods are time-consuming, expensive, and laborious. To overcome this problem, we developed a novel computational predictor, named cross-attention PHV, by implementing two key technologies of the cross-attention mechanism and a one-dimensional convolutional neural network (1D-CNN). The cross-attention mechanisms were very effective in enhancing prediction and generalization abilities. Application of 1D-CNN to the word2vec-generated feature matrices reduced computational costs, thus extending the allowable length of protein sequences to 9000 amino acid residues. Cross-attention PHV outperformed existing state-of-the-art models using a benchmark dataset and accurately predicted PPIs for unknown viruses. Cross-attention PHV also predicted human-SARS-CoV-2 PPIs with area under the curve values >0.95. The Cross-attention PHV web server and source codes are freely available at https://kurata35.bio.kyutech.ac.jp/Cross-attention_PHV/ and https://github.com/kuratahiroyuki/Cross-Attention_PHV, respectively.
A cross-national representative survey in Canada and the U.S. examined ageism toward older individuals during the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic, including ageist consumption stereotypes and perceptions of older people's competence and warmth. We also investigated predictors of ageism, including economic and health threat, social dominance orientation, individualism and collectivism, social distancing beliefs, and demographics. In both countries, younger adults were more likely to hold ageist consumption stereotypes, demonstrating intergenerational conflict about the resources being used by older people. Similarly, young adults provided older people with the lowest competence and warmth scores, though adults of all ages rated older individuals as more warm than competent. Particularly among younger individuals, beliefs about group-based dominance hierarchies, the importance of competition, and the costs of social distancing predicted greater endorsement, whereas beliefs about interdependence and the importance of sacrificing for the collective good predicted lower endorsement of ageist consumption stereotypes. Support for group-based inequality predicted lower perceived competence and warmth of older individuals, whereas beliefs about interdependence and the importance of sacrificing for the collective good predicted higher perceived competence and warmth of older individuals. Implications for policies and practices to reduce intergenerational conflict and ageist perceptions of older individuals are discussed.
Before the pandemic, immigrant mothers from Latin America in the United States typically shouldered the weight of caregiving for children, maintained jobs, and managed transnational care responsibilities. But as COVID-19 erupted across the globe, the combination of gendered roles and a collapsing economy ruptured the already fragile arrangement of childcare and paid labor for Latina immigrant mothers. In this article, I examine how school closures intersected with Latina women's identities and social positions as immigrant mothers who suddenly confronted job loss, illness, and increased familial responsibilities. I show how Latina immigrant women renegotiated relationships to schooling, becoming teachers overnight in an unfamiliar system. Mothers shifted educational aspirations for their children to prioritize safety, as they managed increased stress and conflict while schools remained remote. I demonstrate how the breakdowns in care infrastructure forced mothers to rethink the elusive balance between paid labor and childcare, especially for those who were undocumented. Throughout, I explore how immigrant women's intersecting identities left them vulnerable to structural racism and exclusionary immigration policies. Despite the multiple layers of struggle, women continued to support their children's education and socio-emotional well-being, even in the face of multiple levels of gendered, racialized inequalities.
This study examined three social campaigns for the eradication of ageism that were undertaken in Israel during the COVID-19 pandemic (April, 2020-May, 2021). The documentation and analysis of the campaigns were undertaken via the lens of the Theory of Change and Five Key Principles for social campaigns: planning strategically, communicating effectively, fostering community engagement, implementing key activities, and using research. We conducted desk reviews and qualitative interviews with the campaigns' organizers. The Theory of Change implemented by the campaigns targeted self-ageism among independent older people and/or employers of older adults. All campaigns emphasized "active aging" and "successful aging," to decrease (self)-ageism. The focus on one dimension of active and positive aging may result in ageism and exclusion of older people who do not fit into the category of independent and active people. The complex timing of the campaigns had influenced the degree of implementation of the five key principles. The joining of forces of different organizations and the employment of more diverse representations of old age, may facilitate the achievement of campaign goals. Finally, an empirical evaluation of social campaigns' efforts is still necessary to gather evidence about the effectiveness of social campaigns.
The current study investigates older adults' perceptions of ageism in the United States during the COVID-19 pandemic. Using tenets of Stereotype Embodiment Theory and the Behaviors from Intergroup Affect and Stereotypes Map framework, we sought to (a) examine whether older adults experienced ageism as self-relevant during the pandemic and (b) understand whether older adults experienced certain media messages and interpersonal behaviors during the pandemic and interpreted them as being motivated by potentialpaternalistic age stereotypes. Older adults aged 65 and older recruited from the community (
Initial evidence suggests that rates of intimate partner violence (IPV) increased at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, much of the prevalence research has focused on survivors' experiences of IPV during the initial lockdown period from March to June 2020. The current study adds to this initial research by centering the experience of a domestic violence agency located in the United States, 3-months prior to, during, and after the COVID-19 lockdown. The results suggest a similar pattern across service utilization (e.g., total clients served, calls, safe house capacity) and survivor demographics (e.g., race/ethnicity, cisgender women and men), with an initial decrease in service utilization from pre-lockdown to lockdown and an increase, surpassing pre-lockdown, post-lockdown. The only deviations from this pattern of service utilization were for sexual minority individuals, whose service utilization continued to decline post-lockdown and Asian American/Pacific Islander and trans/gender-nonbinary survivors who rarely utilized services across the time period. Additionally, the domestic violence agency relied heavily on their existing finances, well-rounded staff training, and staff wellbeing throughout the pandemic. The unique challenges that COVID-19 provided demanded flexibility, increased technological utilization, and additional funding particularly for safe housing. Implications for future research, intervention, and policy change are provided below.
This paper seeks to develop and apply a simple yardstick based on remaining life expectancy to assess whether specific health policies unfairly discriminate against people on the basis of their age. This reveals that the COVID-19 vaccine prioritization policies of several countries have discriminated against older people. Conversely, the exclusion of older people from COVID-19 vaccine testing is shown to be non-discriminatory, as is some degree of age prioritization for limited acute COVID-19 care. Age discrimination in vaccine prioritization is shown to be embedded in wider ageist attitudes in health policy, which give the lives of older people a lower social value than the lives of people at younger ages.
The COVID-19 pandemic emerged to be a fertile ground for age-based prejudice and discrimination. In particular, a growing literature investigated ageism towards older people at the individual and the interpersonal level, providing evidence of its prevalence, antecedents and negative consequences. However, less much is known on the phenomenon at the intergroup level. To fill this gap, the present correlational research investigated the effects of younger people's endorsement of ageism towards older people on the attitude towards COVID-19 restriction measures primarily targeted to older (vs. younger) population. In the autumn of 2020, five hundred and eighty-two Italian participants (83.3% females; 
The cognitive health of older adults since the COVID-19 pandemic onset is unclear, as is the potential impact of pandemic-associated societal ageism on perceived cognition. We investigated associations between perceptions of societal ageism and changes in subjective memory over a 10-month period during the COVID-19 pandemic. We collected longitudinal data from monthly online questionnaires in the nationwide COVID-19 Coping Study of US adults aged ≥55 from April 2020 to January 2021 (N = 4444). We analyzed the data using multivariable longitudinal multilevel models. We identified an overall decline in subjective memory, especially in the initial months of the pandemic. Adults who perceived that societal respect for older adults decreased during the pandemic experienced more rapid declines in their subjective memory. These findings suggest that aging adults perceived a decline in their memory, especially during the initial months of the COVID-19 pandemic. Societal interventions to combat ageism may help improve subjective memory and could decrease risk for cognitive decline among middle-aged and older adults.
The COVID-19 pandemic impacted people's lives all over the world, requiring health and safety measures intended to stop the virus from spreading. This study explores whether an unintended consequence of these measures is a new form of ageism. We explore, using qualitative methods, the experiences of older adults living through the pandemic in the United Kingdom and Colombia. Although there were some small differences between countries, for the most part, the experiences were similar. We found that older adults reported that they were seen as a homogenous group and experienced both benevolent and hostile ageism and a loss of autonomy as a consequence of COVID-19 protection measures. Participants from both countries expressed anger and frustration, and increased anxiety, and felt that their individuality was ignored. We recommend that policy-makers, the media, and wider society consider the impact of such health and safety measures on older adults in preparing for future pandemics and health challenges.
The COVID-19 pandemic exacerbated ageism (stereotyping, prejudice, and discrimination) toward older adults in the United States, highlighting the belief that older adults are a burden. Prior to the pandemic, a growing body of research sought to reduce ageism using the PEACE (Positive Education about Aging and Contact Experiences) model. Extending that research, participants were randomly assigned to watch three videos (less than 10 min total) that challenged stereotypes about aging and older adults, depicted positive intergenerational contact, and highlighted older adults as contributors to society (experimental condition) or three videos on wallpaper (control condition). Experimental participants (undergraduate students in Study 1 and a national community sample of young adults in Study 2) reported increased endorsement of older adults as contributors to society and positive stereotypes of older adults. In addition, in Study 2, negative stereotypes of older adults and views of intergenerational conflict were also reduced among experimental (vs. control) participants. These promising findings show that relatively brief ageism reduction interventions are effective during the pandemic and for the first time, that the perception of older adults as contributors to society can be increased. Future directions and implications for social policies are discussed.
Due to systemic and structural inequities, the COVID-19 pandemic disproportionately impacts the Black community, along with ongoing anti-Black racism and violence. Violence against women in the home, particularly Black women, was prevalent during shelter in place, along with the additional family responsibilities of Black mothers. Crenshaw's theory of intersectionality (1991) provides a foundation for examining Black mothers' experiences during shelter-in-place mandates. This mixed-methods study aimed to quantitatively assess violence victimization, acknowledged racial inequities, depression and anxiety, while qualitatively examining Black mothers' experiences in parenting during shelter-in-place orders. Participants (
Intergenerational programs have long been employed to reduce ageism and optimize youth and older adult development. Most involve in-person meetings, which COVID-19 arrested. ​​Needs for safety and social contact were amplified during COVID-19, leading to modified programming that engaged generations remotely rather than eliminating it. Our collective case study incorporates four intergenerational programs in five US states prior to and during COVID-19. Each aims to reduce ageism, incorporating nutrition education, technology skills, or photography programming. Authors present case goals, participants, implementation methods, including responses to COVID-19, outcomes, and lessons learned. Technology afforded opportunities for intergenerational connections; non-technological methods also were employed. Across cases, programmatic foci were maintained through adaptive programming. Community partners' awareness of immediate needs facilitated responsive programming with universities, who leveraged unique resources. While new methods and partnerships will continue post-pandemic, authors concurred that virtual contact cannot fully substitute for in-person relationship-building. Remote programming maintained ties between groups ready to resume shared in-person programming as soon as possible; they now have tested means for responding to routine or novel cancellations of in-person programming. Able to implement in-person and remote intergenerational programming, communities can fight ageism and pursue diverse goals regardless of health, transportation, weather, or other restrictions.
A 12-year-old female patient presented in the emergency room due to spontaneous, recurrent, fulminant epistaxis. As an additional finding a COVID-19-infection was noticed. Persisting hemorrhage led to increasing symptoms of shock. The current literature indicates a clear correlation of a SARS-CoV‑2-infection to spontaneous fulminant epistaxis, most likely due to a mucosal inflammation; however, other typical causes must be ruled out.
The COVID-19 pandemic has affected children across the planet and the consequences on their health, nutritional status, and social structure have been more pronounced in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). This review will focus on the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on infant growth and feeding practices and access to food and obesity prevalence among children in LMICs. An electronic search was performed on MEDLINE and Embase to identify relevant articles in the English language.
A higher prevalence of infections by the SARS-CoV-2 virus and a lower mortality rate were found in children in LMICs compared to western countries. In 2020, 22% and 52% of the wasting and deaths in children under 5 years of age in LMICS came from the sub-Saharan Africa region, respectively. Despite the decrease in stunting from 40% in 1990 to 24.2% in 2019, the prevalence remains above 30% in LMICs. Regarding breastfeeding practices in LMICs, many organizations recommend breastfeeding for infants and children born to infected mothers with SARS-CoV-2. This pandemic has resulted in higher food insecurity and disruption to access to health care and nutrition-related programs from schools; this situation has been more detrimental for younger children from LMICs.
Given the devastating effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the nutritional status, higher food insecurity, and lack of access to health care for infants and children in LMICs, efforts from government, world organizations, and non-for-profit institutions should be implemented to ameliorate the effects of this pandemic.
This is a cross-sectional study. Participants consisted of 210 students from the School of Health Sciences at the University. Perceptions toward ICTs in Teaching-Learning Process Scale and Computer Emotion Scale were used.
Nursing students report significantly more ICT-related negative emotions than Management of Health Systems students. Students who took a low or medium number of online courses report significantly more ICT-related positive emotions than students who took a high number of online courses. In addition, ICT-related beliefs did not mediate the effects of ICT-related positive emotions and ICT usage but did mediate ICT-related negative emotions and ICT usage.
The digital tools in online courses should be appropriately combined with the learning method, and course content. It requires not only a solid technical foundation but also an educational mentality, as well as an adjustment period.
The indicators of the pandemic have been based on the total number of diagnosed cases of COVID-19, the number of people hospitalized or in intensive care units, and deaths from the infection. The aim of this study is to describe the available data on diagnostic tests, health service used for the diagnosis of COVID-19, case detection and monitoring.
Descriptive study with review of official data available on the websites of the Spanish health councils corresponding to 17 Autonomous Communities, 2 Autonomous cities and the Ministry of Health. The variables collected refer to contact tracing, technics for diagnosis, use of health services and follow-up.
all regions of Spain show data on diagnosed cases of COVID-19 and deaths. Hospitalized cases and intensive care admissions are shown in all regions except the Balearic Islands. Diagnostic tests for COVID-19 have been registered in all regions except Madrid region and Extremadura, with scarcely information on what type of test has been performed (present in 7 CCAA), requesting service and study of contacts.
The information available on the official websites of the Health Departments of the different regions of Spain are heterogeneous. Data from the use of health service or workload in Primary Care, Emergency department or Out of hours services are almost non-existent.
Using the concept of a policy style developed by Howlett and Tosun, this article explores the linkages between Turkey's policy style and its pandemic management. Turkey took both preemptive and restrictive measures with respect to the COVID-19 pandemic. Before the virus hit the country, flights to and from various countries including China were suspended, the Scientific Advisory Board (SAB) was established, and a COVID-19 disease guide was prepared. After the virus entered the country, immediate restrictive measures, such as national lockdowns and international and intercity travel restrictions were put in place. Turkey adopted a centralized response to the pandemic with the President, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Health, and the SAB acting as central players. From the perspective of policy style, this article shows how Turkey's general characteristics of policy-making processes have been reflected in its pandemic management policies.
This special issue is the sequelto the issue on COVID-19 policies published in European Policy Analysis in fall 2020, which focused on the European countries' early responses to the pandemic. The collection aims to go beyond the "honeymoon" phase of the outbreak, that is, the first wave. The selected cases-Sweden, Greece and Cyprus, Germany, Turkey, Hungary, and the Eurozone-provide a variety of national features in terms of political systems, institutional structures, and policy styles. The featured articles adopt different theoretical perspectives and are authored by scholars from a variety of disciplines, who pursue both interpretative and explanatory goals by focusing on policy adoption, policy perception, and learning opportunities, but also on local pandemic management and policy outcomes. A fil rouge unites the featured contributions: they all show the importance of analyzing change over sufficiently long timeframes, to capture the complexity of existing trends.
Left atrial (LA) dysfunction is a crucial risk factor for cardiovascular events, and various pathologies may affect LA function. Coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19) is an ongoing global pandemic causing morbidity and mortality. In the present study, we aimed to evaluate LA functions in patients who recovered from COVID-19.
Sixty consecutive patients recovered from COVID-19 and 60 healthy individuals as a control group were included in the study. Blood samples and echocardiography measurements were obtained from each subject. The two groups were compared in terms of demographic and echocardiographic characteristics.
In the COVİD-19 group, LA maximum volume (LAV
LA functions may be impaired in patients recovered from COVID-19 infection.
The Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2, is the pathogen that causes COVID-19. Cardiovascular (CV) involvement during this infection, has been related to adverse outcomes. Interestingly, some patients may remain symptomatic beyond the first 14 days of disease diagnosis. Although a particular reduction on left ventricular (LV) global longitudinal strain (GLS) in basal segments has been recently described in patients hospitalized with diagnosis of COVID-19, the correlation of these findings with the persistence of symptoms has not been determined.
The objective of this study is to describe echocardiographic findings in patients recovered from COVID-19 and to determine its association with persistent dyspnea.
Seventy-six patients were analyzed. Forty-six were asymptomatic (group N°1) and 30 referred persistent dyspnea at the time of examination (group N°2), and a cohort of 25 healthy individuals was included as a control group. Total LV GLS, average basal LV GLS, and average mid-apical LV GLS were assessed. Basal-mid-apical index (BMAI) was calculated. A difference in BMAI bigger than 15% between both groups was stablished as cutoff point.
Nonsignificative differences on standard echocardiographic measurements were found between the analyzed groups. When compared to the control group, there was nonsignificative reduction on basal LV GLS values in patients with persistent dyspnea. However, BMAI values were bigger than 15% in 70% of patients from group N°2 but in none of the patients from the control group ( = 0.0002).
This new index allowed to identify an abnormal relation in LV GLS values between basal and medium-apical segments among patients recovered from COVID-19 and persistent dyspnea.
Membranous ventricular septal aneurysm (VSA) is an uncommon cardiac abnormality, potentially leading to several cardiac complications such as aortic valve prolapse, arrhythmias, and aneurysm rupture. A young competitive soccer player presented for a post-COVID sports cardiology assessment, denying any previous cardiological evaluations. On transthoracic echocardiography, a membranous VSA was incidentally found with no other cardiac abnormality nor hemodynamic impairment associated. A well-oriented anamnesis guided by echocardiographic findings revealed that a ventricular septal defect was diagnosed at birth with spontaneous closure at 4 years old. From that moment, no further follow-up was performed. Before granting cardiological approval to competitive sport, transesophageal echocardiography and Holter electrocardiogram were performed to confirm the absence of interventricular shunt and any other cardiac abnormality or arrhythmias associated with VSA. This case highlights the value of an accurate and comprehensive clinical and echocardiographic evaluation when performing a cardiological sports assessment, even in a young asymptomatic athlete.
Jumps in commodity prices can make asset risk management challenging. This study explores the influence feature of the COVID-19 epidemic on China's commodity price jumps, using 5-min intraday high-frequency futures data of three China's commodity markets (energy, chemical, and metal) from January 23, 2020 to June 10, 2022. We find that firstly the information spillover from the COVID-19 spread situation to China's energy price jumps is relatively weak, and the COVID-19 epidemic shows the most substantial jump information spillover pattern to China's chemical price. The information spillover pattern is time-varying across the COVID-19 spread situation phase. Secondly, there are co-movement patterns between China's commodity price and China/global COVID-19 confirmed cases. This co-movement feature mainly occurs at the medium- or long-run time scales, and varies across commodities. Thirdly, the demand elasticity for China's commodities and its dependence on imports and exports are the main factors influencing the sensitivity of its price jumps to the COVID-19 outbreak.
Soon after the release of the new anti-COVID mRNA vaccines, reports came in from the US and the UK of anaphylactic reactions. Fueled by the necessary caution toward these new vaccine platforms, these reports had a great impact and were largely commented upon in the scientific literature and global media. The current estimated frequency is of 5 cases per million doses. Very little biological data are presented in the literature to support the anaphylaxis diagnosis in these patients in addition to skin tests. Allergic reactions to vaccines are rare and mostly due to vaccine excipient. Therefore, the poly-ethylene-glycol (PEG) present in both mRNA formulation, and already known to be immunogenic, was soon suspected to be the potential culprit. Several hypersensitivity mechanisms to PEG or to other vaccine components can be suspected, even if the classical IgE-dependent anaphylaxis seems to be one of the most plausible candidates. In the early 2022, the international guidelines recommended to perform skin prick tests and basophil activation tests (BAT) in people experiencing allergic reaction to the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine or with a history of PEG allergy. The aim of this review is to discuss the main potential mechanisms of immediate allergy to COVID19 vaccines based on published data, together with the various techniques used to confirm or not sensitization to one component.
Traditional contact tracing tests the direct contacts of those who test positive. But, by the time an infected individual is tested, the infection starting from the person may have infected a chain of individuals. Hence, why should the testing stop at direct contacts, and not test secondary, tertiary contacts or even contacts further down? One deterrent in testing long chains of individuals right away may be that it substantially increases the testing load, or does it? We investigate the costs and benefits of such multi-hop contact tracing for different number of hops. Considering diverse contact networks, we show that the cost-benefit trade-off can be characterized in terms of a single measurable attribute, the 
We present a simple model for the spread of an infection that incorporates spatial variability in population density. Starting from first-principle considerations, we explore how a novel partial differential equation with state-dependent diffusion can be obtained. This model exhibits higher infection rates in the areas of higher population density-a feature that we argue to be consistent with epidemiological observations. The model also exhibits an infection wave, the speed of which varies with population density. In addition, we demonstrate the possibility that an infection can 'jump' (i.e. tunnel) across areas of low population density towards areas of high population density. We briefly touch upon the data reported for coronavirus spread in the Canadian province of Nova Scotia as a case example with a number of qualitatively similar features as our model. Lastly, we propose a number of generalizations of the model towards future studies.
Niclosamide is a well-known broad-spectrum antiparasitic drug used for human as well as veterinary tapeworm infections. Recently, it attracted attention as an antiviral agent for treating coronavirus disease 2019. It is administered orally in humans to treat tapeworm infections. Furthermore, it is a registered pesticide and molluscicide to control infections in the aquaculture industry. Its chronic environmental exposure has potential toxicities when such contaminated seafood is consumed. Therefore, monitoring its residual concentration in food products (seafood, water, water waste, etc.) and pharmaceuticals (active pharmaceutical ingredients, bulk drugs, and formulations) is imperative. The present review critically investigates the sophisticated techniques employed for analyzing niclosamide, its degradation products, and metabolites in various samples and matrices. The future scope for green analytical methods, green sample extraction and preparation is also deliberated.
Wearing face masks to prevent the spread of COVID-19 has proved controversial in many countries; conducting new research on the use of masks would be colored by this controversy. In 2012 (pre-COVID), we conducted an experiment on the effects of masks on social interaction. College students (
Most previous studies that examined the effect of anxiety on hostility towards a distinct group have focused on cases in which we hate those we are afraid of. The current study, on the other hand, examines the relationship between anxiety in one domain and hostility towards a distinct group that is not the source of that anxiety. We focus here on symptoms of anxiety during the COVID-19 pandemic, which have become increasingly frequent, and show that the implications of such mental difficulties are far-reaching, posing a threat to relationships between ideological groups. In two studies conducted in both Israel and the United States, we found that high levels of anxiety during the COVID-19 epidemic are associated with higher levels of hatred towards ordinary people from the respective political outgroups, lower levels of willingness to sustain interpersonal relations with these people (i.e., greater social distancing), and greater willingness to socially exclude them. This relationship was mediated by the perception of threat posed by the political outgroup. This study is the first to show that mental difficulty driven by an external threat can be a fundamental factor that explains levels of intergroup hostility.
Although we are witnessing a new phase in the management of COVID-19, understanding what predicts adherence to preventive behaviors still remains crucial. In this study we focus on interpersonal relationships by specifically investigating whether engagement in preventive behaviors when in the presence of others may be a function of the type of relationship (in terms of closeness) one has with others. Because close others are often perceived similar to the self compared to strangers, we put forward that close relationships may inadvertently decrease COVID-19 risk perceptions which may ultimately decrease compliance with recommended behaviors when in their presence. To test this hypothesis, 747 Italian respondents were invited to answer one out of four versions of a questionnaire differing on the target (i.e., friends vs. parents vs. grandparents vs. strangers), including questions regarding COVID-19 risk perceptions and intentions to engage in preventive behaviors. Mediation analysis showed that close relationships (i.e., with friends, parents, and grandparents) compared to nonclose relationships (i.e., with strangers) predicted lower intentions to engage in preventive behaviors via lower risk perceptions. Altogether, these results shed light on the role played by closeness in indirectly shaping individuals' dis(engagement) in preventive behaviors and contribute to better understand possible unconscious biases which may undermine our safety during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Although most protective behaviors related to the COVID-19 pandemic come with personal costs, they will produce the largest benefit if everybody cooperates. This study explores two interacting factors that drive cooperation in this tension between private and collective interests. A preregistered experiment (
Using Health personal protective equipment (PPE) such as face masks, safety foot shoes and protective suits has expanded dramatically due to COVID-19 pandemic leading to a widespread distribution of the PPE, particularly the face masks, in the environments including streets, dump sites, seashores and other risky locations. The environmental degradation of polypropylene, the essential plastic component in single-use face masks (SUM), takes between 20 and 30 years and thus it is essential to develop experimental approaches to recycle the polypropylene or to reuse it in different ways. This paper explores the integration of SUM into concrete structures to improve its mechanical properties. We first to cut the inner nose wire and ear loops, then distribute the PPE material among five different mixed styles. The PPE were applied by volume at 0%, 1%, 1.5%, 2.0%, and 2.5%, with tests focusing on UCS, STS, FS, and PV to determine the concrete's overall consistency and assess the improvement in its mechanical properties. The results showed that adding PPE improves the strength properties and general performance of the concrete specimens. The pattern of rising intensity started to fade after 2%. The findings demonstrated that adding PPE fibers enhanced the UCS by 9.4% at the optimum 2% PPE. The PPE fibers, on the other side, are crucial in calculating the STS and FS of the reinforcement concrete.
The main aim of the present paper is threefold. First, it aims at presenting an extended contact-based model for the description of the spread of contagious diseases in complex networks with consideration of asymptomatic evolutions. Second, it presents a parametrization method of the considered model, including validation with data from the actual spread of COVID-19 in Germany, Mexico and the United States of America. Third, it aims at showcasing the fruitful combination of contact-based network spreading models with a modern state estimation and filtering technique to (i) enable real-time monitoring schemes, and (ii) efficiently deal with dimensionality and stochastic uncertainties. The network model is based on an interpretation of the states of the nodes as (statistical) probability densities samples, where nodes can represent individuals, groups or communities, cities or countries, enabling a wide field of application of the presented approach.
In this article, we are studying a Covid-19 mathematical model in the fractal-fractional sense of operators for the existence of solution, Hyers-Ulam (HU) stability and computational results. For the qualitative analysis, we convert the model to an equivalent integral form and investigate its qualitative analysis with the help of iterative convergent sequence and fixed point approach. For the computational aspect, we take help from the Lagrange's interpolation and produce a numerical scheme for the fractal-fractional waterborne model. The scheme is then tested for a case study and we obtain interesting results.
The SARS-CoV‑2 pandemic led to the closure of leisure and recreation facilities worldwide. As part of a model study funded by the Baden-Wuerttemberg Ministry of Social Affairs, Health and Integration, it was possible to demonstrate how a hygiene and safety concept can be successfully implemented in practice using the example of the opening and operation of an amusement park in Baden-Wuerttemberg (Germany) under scientific supervision.
The aim of the model project was, besides the verification of a possible infection event through a visit to the amusement park, to develop and review a recommended course of action for the safe opening and operation of leisure facilities under pandemic conditions, which can be transferred to other destinations.
A variety of data sources were used for this project: Recurrent expert rounds of multidisciplinary teams (business administration, healthcare research, sociology and medicine), aerosol measurement data, observation protocols, official infection statistics and interview data from visitor surveys.
The action plan developed in this project provides guidance and recommendations for operators of recreation and leisure facilities to implement measures that enhance staff and guest safety, allowing facilities to operate under pandemic conditions.
This study sets a precedent using the example of a recreational park in Baden-Wuerttemberg (Germany) to serve as a guide for other facilities; however, operations in the leisure and tourism sector are unique and measures are accordingly difficult to transfer directly. The recommended action plan is further intended to support policy makers in future pandemic situations regarding measures to close, open and operate such facilities.
The dynamic transmission of asymptomatic and symptomatic COVID-19 infections is difficult to quantify because asymptomatic infections are not readily recognized or self-identified. To address this issue, we collected data on asymptomatic and symptomatic infections from four Chinese regions (Beijing, Dalian, Xinjiang, and Guangzhou). These data were considered reliable because the government had implemented large-scale multiple testing during the outbreak in the four regions. We modified the classical susceptible-exposure-infection-recovery model and combined it with mathematical tools to quantitatively analyze the number of infections caused by asymptomatic and symptomatic infections during dynamic transmission, respectively. The results indicated that the ratios of the total number of asymptomatic to symptomatic infections were 0.13:1, 0.48:1, 0.29:1, and 0.15:1, respectively, in the four regions. However, the ratio of the total number of infections caused by asymptomatic and symptomatic infections were 4.64:1, 6.21:1, 1.49:1, and 1.76:1, respectively. Furthermore, the present study describes the daily number of healthy people infected by symptomatic and asymptomatic transmission and the dynamic transmission process. Although there were fewer asymptomatic infections in the four aforementioned regions, their infectivity was found to be significantly higher, implying a greater need for timely screening and control of infections, particularly asymptomatic ones, to contain the spread of COVID-19.
The COVID-19 pandemic has dramatically changed healthcare personnel's working environment and sense of security. Medical laboratory scientists were also faced with new occupational challenges. They were tasked with performing novel tests for SARS-CoV-2 without being aware of the associated risks. At the beginning of the pandemic, strict sanitary requirements and the fear of becoming infected with the "new virus" were considerable sources of stress. However, these stress responses abated over time. The aim of this two-stage study was to explore the extent to which this group of medical professionals adapted to new working conditions 1 year after the outbreak of the pandemic. The study was conducted at the beginning of the fourth pandemic wave in Poland, i.e., between 10 September and 31 October 2021. The first stage was a pilot study that involved interviews with 14 medical laboratory scientists. The results were used to perform a survey of 294 laboratory scientists in the second stage. The study investigated the problems and fears faced by this professional group at the beginning of the pandemic, as well as changes in their attitudes during successive waves of COVID-19. The analyzed data demonstrated that most medical laboratory scientists had grown accustomed to the pandemic and workplace changes by the beginning of the fourth wave. The study also indicates that in addition to adequate means of personal protection, health professionals should also be provided with emotional support in times of pandemic.
COVID-19 pandemic has severely affected Pakistan with 1,557,134 cases as of August 4, 2022. However, the data regarding breakthrough infections in Pakistan is scant. Hence, the objective was to analyze SARS-CoV-2 breakthrough infections with respect to vaccines and variants during the fifth wave in Pakistan. Therefore, the Department of Virology (NIH, Pakistan) genotyped 2,467 randomly selected individuals between November 2021 and February 2022 using the SNPsig
Effective isolation and early treatment of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) relies on rapid, accurate, and straightforward diagnostic tools. In response to the rapidly increasing number of cases, reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) assays for multiple target genes have become widely available in the market.
In total, 236 COVID-19 patients with positive results in both RT-qPCR and rapid antigen diagnosis (Ag-RDT) were enrolled in the study. The cycle threshold (Ct) was compared with different onset times and target genes. Comparison between groups was evaluated with the Kruskal-Wallis test and Dunn test. The correlation between target genes was analyzed by Spearman.
In samples of Ct ≤ 21, Ct was different for the nucleocapsid (N), open reading frame 1ab (ORF1ab), and envelope (E) genes (
RT-qPCR confirmed that the N gene performed well in Ct ≤ 21 and samples within 7 days of onset. Ag-RDT was discriminatory for patients within 7 days of onset. This study facilitated early identification and control of COVID-19 prevalence among patients.
Organizational responses that support healthcare workers (HCWs) and mitigate health risks are necessary to offset the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. We aimed to understand how HCWs and key personnel working in healthcare settings in Melbourne, Australia perceived their employing organizations' responses to the COVID-19 pandemic.
In this qualitative study, conducted May-July 2021 as part of the longitudinal Coronavirus in Victorian Healthcare and Aged Care Workers (COVIC-HA) study, we purposively sampled and interviewed HCWs and key personnel from healthcare organizations across hospital, ambulance, aged care and primary care (general practice) settings. We also examined HCWs' free-text responses to a question about organizational resources and/or supports from the COVIC-HA Study's baseline survey. We thematically analyzed data using an iterative process.
We analyzed data from interviews with 28 HCWs and 21 key personnel and free-text responses from 365 HCWs, yielding three major themes: 
This study provides in-depth insights into the challenges and successes of organizational responses across four healthcare settings in the uncertain environment of a pandemic. Future efforts to mitigate the impact of acute stressors on HCWs should include a strong focus on bidirectional communication, effective and realistic strategies to strengthen and sustain the healthcare workforce, and greater investment in flexible and meaningful psychological support and wellbeing initiatives for HCWs.
COVID-19 caused harmful mental consequences to the public, and mental health problems were very common among college students during the outbreak of COVID-19. Academic stressors were the main stress for college students, and social support, social well-being, and self-identity were widely known as protective factors for mental health. Therefore, the study aimed to investigate the influence of academic stressors on mental health and the mediating effect of social support, social well-being, and self-identity among college students during the outbreak of COVID-19. With 900 college students as subjects, using the college students' academic stressors questionnaire, social support questionnaire, social well-being scale, self-identity scale, and depression anxiety stress scales (DASS-21), the results showed that: (1) academic stressors had a significantly negative correlation with social support, social well-being, and self-identity while having a significantly positive correlation with mental health; (2) academic stressors could positively predict mental health; (3) this effect was mediated by social support, social well-being, and self-identity; (4) work stressor was an important stressor during COVID-19, and had the same role as academic stressors in the structural equation model. The results of this study suggested that adjusting the academic stressors or work stressors of college students and enhancing social support could improve social well-being and self-identity, and might effectively protect their mental health under the COVID-19 pandemic environment.
With the development of society, nurses have an increasingly more important role in the medical team. At the same time, due to various reasons, the number of active nurses is continuously decreasing, and the shortage of nursing personnel is becoming ever more serious. The COVID-19 pandemic made these clinical problems more serious. As the department with the greatest work pressure and the most intense pace, acute and critical care nurses are already facing serious problems related to job burnout and dismission. In the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, these problems should be solved urgently. Furthermore, with the rise of positive psychology, many scholars are turning their research direction to the positive professional experience of nurses so as to get inspiration to encourage nurses to face work with an optimistic attitude and guide nursing managers to better retain nursing talents.
The purpose of this paper is to summarize and evaluate the positive emotional experience and professional benefit of acute and critical care specialist nurses in the process of work. So as to better interpret their occupational benefit perception and guide nursing managers in adopting positive measures and promoting the development of high-quality nursing.
Cinahl plus, Embase, Medline and other twelve databases were searched for relevant literature. Meta-aggregation was used to synthesize the findings of the included studies.
From a total of 12 articles included in this study, 55 main results were presented, 8 new categories were integrated, and three themes were formed: professional identity, social support, and personal growth. The professional identity included: being proud of professional ability and increasing professional value; social support included: friends and family support, organizational, environmental support, peer support, and support of patients and their families; personal growth included realizing self-worth and promoting self-development.
Hospital managers should pay attention to the positive emotional experience of nurses in work and based on this, provide practical and beneficial protection for nurses from the aspects of salary, learning opportunities, working environment, social support and internal personality, stimulate work enthusiasm, guide nurses to correctly face negative emotions and occupational pressure, and improve the sense of professional benefit.
Recently, indoor thermal comfort has received more scholarly attention than ever due to the COVID-19 pandemic and global warming. However, most studies on indoor thermal comfort in China concentrated on urban buildings in the east and north. The indoor thermal comfort of rural dwellers in southwest China is insufficiently investigated. Hence, this study assesses residents' indoor thermal comfort in a rural dwelling in Linshui, obtains the thermal neutral temperature of the rural area, and analyzes the thermal adaptation behavior of rural dwellers. The results reveal that the thermal neutral temperature of rural dwellers is 29.33°C (operative temperature), higher than that presented in previous studies based on the same climate region. Indoor thermal conditions in rural dwellings are relatively harsh, but various thermal adaptation behavior of rural dwellers significantly improve their ability to withstand the harsh conditions. When people live in an environment with a (relatively) constant climate parameter (e.g., humidity), their perception of that parameter seems compromised. Most rural dwellers are unwilling to use cooling equipment with high energy consumption. Therefore, more passive cooling measures are recommended in the design and renovation of rural dwellings.
Regulated breathing facilitates ventilation and reduces breathlessness. However, the effect of Yogic breathing on patients with COVID remains unclear. We aimed to evaluate the efficacy of two breathing protocols, i.e., short breathing technique (SBT) and long duration breathing technique (LBDT).
Three groups including COVID-positive patients, COVID-recovered patients, and healthcare workers (HCWs) were included in the study and segregated into Yoga and control groups. SBT was administered to COVID-positive patients. Both SBT and LBDT were administered to COVID-recovered patients and HCWs. A total of 18 biochemical parameters, a 6-min walk test (6MWT), and a 1-min sit-stand test (1MSST) were assessed on 0th, 7th, and 15th days, where biochemical parameters were the primary outcome. Pre-post estimation of neuropsychological parameters (nine questionnaires) and heart rate variability (HRV) were carried out. The paired 
A significant elevation in white blood cell (WBC) count was observed in COVID-positive intervention (
Yogic breathing lowered D-dimer, which is helpful in reducing thrombosis and venous thromboembolism in patients with COVID-19 besides lowering the chances of vaccine-induced thrombotic thrombocytopenia in vaccinated individuals. The breathing intervention improved exercise capacity in mild to moderate cases of COVID-19. Further studies can show if such breathing techniques can influence immunity-related genes, as reported recently in a study. We suggest that Yogic breathing may be considered an integrative approach for the management of patients with COVID.
http://ctri.nic.in/Clinicaltrials/login.php, identifier: CTRI/2020/10/028195.
Since the outbreak of COVID-19, wearing masks, vaccinations, and maintaining a safe distance has become social behaviors advocated by the government and widely adopted by the public. At the same time, unpredictable natural disaster risks brought by extreme climate change compound difficulties during epidemics and cause systemic risks that influence the existing pattern of epidemic prevention. Therefore, it is necessary to explore the effect of natural disaster risk caused by climate change on the response to outbreaks in the context of the COVID-19 epidemic. This study will focus on individual-level epidemic prevention behaviors, taking as an example the significant risk of severe destructive flooding caused by heavy rains in Henan, China, on July 20, 2021, which claimed 398 lives, to explore the effect of floods on the preventive behaviors of residents in the hardest hit areas against COVID-19. Through the multi-stage stratified random sampling of the affected residents in Zhengzhou, Xinxiang, Hebi, Luoyang, Anyang, and other cities in Henan Province, 2,744 affected people were surveyed via questionnaires. Through the linear regression model and moderating effect analysis, the study found that after floods, the individual's flood risk perception and response behaviors significantly correlated with the individual's prevention behaviors against COVID-19. Specifically, both flood risk perception and response behaviors strengthened the individual's prevention behaviors. Furthermore, the study also found that community risk preparation behavior and social capital can moderate the above relationship to a certain extent. The research can guide risk communication under the compound risk scenario and prevent risky public behavior under the consistent presence of COVID-19 in the community.
Social stigma related to coronavirus disease (COVID-19), i. e., COVID-19 stigma, forms a burden on people socially, economically, and mentally. This study assessed COVID-19 stigma using a scale to identify a population likely to exhibit higher prejudice against COVID-19 itself as well as those infected with COVID-19.
We adapted and modified the Cancer Stigma Scale to assess COVID-19 stigma and used it as the baseline survey of a cohort study in Japan. The questionnaire was disseminated to 1,573 participants (51.7% men) between December 2020 and March 2021. The questionnaire items included the infection status of individuals close to the respondent and their preventive behaviors related to COVID-19, quality of life (QOL; using the EuroQoL 5-Dimension 5-Level [EQ-5D-5L]), and psychological distress (using the 6-item Kessler Psychological Distress Scale [K6]). Exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses were performed to validate the COVID-19 stigma scale, and we further used the structural equation modeling (SEM) to assess the relationship with QOL and psychological distress.
COVID-19 stigma was calculated for the 257 (16.3%) participants who responded to the questionnaire. The mean age (standard deviation) was 54.5 (14.4) years, and 50.2% were men. Factor analysis revealed a five-factor model: Awkwardness (feeling uncomfortable being with a person infected before), Severity (fear of not being able to return to normal after infection), Avoidance (attitude of avoiding infected persons), Policy Opposition (expecting more public funding investment), and Personal Responsibility (believing that infected persons themselves are responsible for their infection). Participants > 70 years had the highest scores among other age groups considering all factors except for Policy Opposition. Standardized coefficients in SEM for COVID-19 stigma (latent variable) was highest for Severity (beta = 0.86). Regression coefficients of COVID-19 stigma on K6 and QOL were 0.21 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.074-0.342) and -0.159 (95% CI -0.295-0.022), respectively.
People aged ≥ 70 years are more likely to exhibit COVID-19 stigma. Additionally, the results indicate that COVID-19 stigma impacts QOL and psychological distress.
Sleep disturbance including insomnia and sleep duration is associated with an increased risk of infectious. With the ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, it is important to explore potential causal associations of sleep disturbance on COVID-19 susceptibility and hospitalization.
Insomnia and sleep duration were selected as exposure. Outcomes included susceptibility and hospitalization for COVID-19. Two sample mendelian randomization design was used to assess causality between sleep and COVID-19. Inverse variance weighted method was used as main analysis method to combine the ratio estimates for each instrumental variable to obtain the causal effect. Cochran's Q statistic was used to test for global heterogeneity. MR-Egger and weighting median estimator (WME) were used as sensitivity analysis to ensure the stability and reliability of the results. MR-Egger intercept term was used to test the mean pleiotropy. In addition, the direct effects of insomnia and sleep duration on COVID-19 susceptibility and hospitalization were estimated using multivariable mendelian randomization (MVMR).
Univariate MR provided no evidence of a causal associations of insomnia on COVID-19 susceptibility (OR = 1.10, 95% CI:0.95, 1.27; 
Insomnia and extreme sleep duration may risk factors for increased COVID-19 susceptibility. Relieving insomnia and maintaining normal sleep duration may be powerful measures to reduce COVID-19 infections.
The continued emergence of new COVID-19 variants highlights the importance of vaccination in the effort to reduce disease transmission and burden. The objective of this study is to evaluate the processes and outcomes associated with a novel in-home COVID-19 vaccination program aimed at vaccinating high-risk populations in New York, USA.
To evaluate program processes, we described the program itself and reflected on some key lessons learned. To evaluate program outcomes, we analyzed data reported by vaccine recipients. These outcomes included the percentage of vaccine recipients that successfully received the full course of vaccinations, and the demographic and health characteristics of vaccine recipients. We additionally assessed demographic differences in motivations for receiving in-home care, using chi-squared tests to assess statistical significance. Data were collected and reported via dynamic online intake forms.
The median age of vaccine recipients was 79 ± 
The population receiving vaccinations from this in-home care delivery program comprised seniors who were mostly female and non-white, indicated socioeconomic vulnerability, and reported one or more COVID-related health conditions; this signified that the program met its goal of vaccinating those most at risk for severe COVID-19 disease.
Most of the COVID-19 fatal cases and severe illnesses like acute respiratory distress syndrome occur in older adults and other people who have underlying medical comorbidities. Understanding patients with chronic disease' knowledge, attitudes, and intention to take the COVID-19 vaccine and related factors are necessary to control the mortality of COVID-19 infection. Therefore, this study aimed to assess knowledge, attitudes, and intention to take the COVID-19 vaccine among patients with chronic disease in Southern Ethiopia.
A facility-based cross-sectional study was conducted among 409 patients with chronic diseases having a follow-up at the hospitals of the Southern region of Ethiopia from November 14, 2021, to December 24, 2021. A structured, interviewer-administered questionnaire was used to collect data. Bivariate and multivariable logistic regression was conducted to show the association of variables with knowledge, attitude, and intention to take the COVID-19 vaccine. The associations of variables were declared with the use of a 95% CI and 
Overall, 79.2, 70.9, and 58.2% of participants had good knowledge, favorable attitude, and intent to take the COVID-19 vaccine, respectively. Age ≥49 years old (AOR = 1.643; 95% CI = 1.008-3.060) and college and above level of education (AOR = 3.002; 95% CI = 1.897-5.021) were found to be significantly associated with knowledge about COVID-19 vaccine. College and above level of education (AOR = 1.510; 95% CI = 1.002-3.975) and good knowledge (AOR = 3.560; 95% CI = 1.481-6.120) were found to be significantly associated with intention to take COVID-19 vaccine.
Intention to take the COVID-19 vaccine was low among patients with chronic diseases to achieve herd immunity. Therefore, a holistic and multi-sectoral partnership is necessary for a successful COVID-19 vaccination campaign. Further health education and communication are very crucial methods to improve vaccine acceptance and lastly to achieve herd immunity.
This work aims to examining the latest early childhood caries situation in children aged 3 and 5 and its related risk factors in Zhejiang Province during the COVID-19 pandemic.
There are 3,537 children and their main caregivers participate in this study. We used chi square test or U-test to analyze whether there were differences in the prevalence of dental caries under different variables. The risk factors on ECC were determined by multivariate logistic analysis.
The ECC rate of children in this study was 57.51%. The mean decayed missing filled teeth (dmft) scores were 3.01. The result of multivariate logistic analysis showed higher ECC prevalence was found in children as age increasing, with lower district economic level, with high frequency of confectionary consumption, having oral medical treatment behavior and bad evaluation of children's oral health by parents.
In general, the prevalence rate of ECC in this study was lower than five years ago, but still higher than those developed countries. And it was associated with age, district economic level, frequency of confectionary consumption, oral medical treatment behavior and evaluation of children's oral health by parents.
Socio-economic conditions and social attitudes are known to represent epidemiological determinants. Credible knowledge on socio-economic driving factors of the COVID-19 epidemic is still incomplete. Based on linear random effects regression, an ecological model is derived to estimate COVID-19 incidence in German rural/urban districts from local socio-economic factors and popularity of political parties in terms of their share of vote. Thereby, records provided by Germany's public health institute (Robert Koch Institute) of weekly notified 7-day incidences per 100,000 inhabitants per district from the outset of the epidemic in 2020 up to December 1, 2021, are used to construct the dependent variable. Local socio-economic conditions including share of votes, retrieved from the Federal Statistical Office of Germany, have been used as potential risk factors. Socio-economic parameters like 
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) disease first appeared in Wuhan, China in December 2019. Subsequently, the pandemic spread rapidly throughout the entire world. The number of people who died from COVID-19 is rising daily due to the growing number cases. This retrospective study aims to classify patients with hepatosteatosis (HS) who had COVID-19, depending on additional disease characteristics and to compare survival times and death rates.
The study included 433 individuals with COVID-19 and HS at Amasya University Sabuncuoglu Serefeddin Education and Research Hospital. Additional disease characteristics of patients with HS were analyzed using latent class analysis (LCA) and the patients were divided into two groups.
The study results indicate that the survival time of the first group, which was formed as a result of the LCA, was significantly lower than that of the second group (
In patients with HS, the presence of diabetes, coronary artery disease, chronic rhythm problem, COPD, and chronic renal disorders contributes to an increase in death rates due to COVID-19.
Studies have demonstrated that Latinx populations face significant health disparities in access to mental health care. The objective of this study was to describe the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the mental health needs of Latinx families, from the perspectives of direct service providers working with Latinx communities.
Twenty-one semi-structured interviews were conducted virtually with direct service providers to the Latinx community from August to October 2020. Interviews were transcribed verbatim and analyzed using thematic analysis.
Two-thirds of providers were female, with a median age of 33 years, and provided direct services to Latinx clients and had extensive experience working with immigrant families, particularly in Massachusetts. Key themes identified describing the impact of COVID-19 on the mental health needs of Latinx families included: (1) exacerbation of mental health symptoms, (2) financial stressors, (3) preoccupation regarding transnational lives, (4) secondary needs becoming more salient, and (5) immigration status as a main driver of inequality.
Our findings highlight the importance of focusing on the mental health needs of Latinx immigrants and ensuring their access to mental health services. Telehealth seems to be a potential tool that promotes mental health access among Latinx clients. Future research needs to continue investigating the role of telehealth in decreasing mental health access disparities.
Undergraduate nursing students were inevitably recruited to provide care in response to overloaded hospitals with COVID-19 patients. The placement was potentially a stressful event and we aimed to understand the students' perception of direct nursing care during the pandemic.
This qualitative content analysis study carried out in 2020 (May-June) in Tehran, I.R. Iran. Using explanatory questions, we interviewed 15 undergraduate nursing students who provided direct care for at least 2 months to patients hospitalized with COVID-19 in the beginning of the pandemic to obtain their deep experiences. We applied the MAXQDA 10 to extract codes, used the qualitative content analysis method for investigation, and then applied the Lincoln and Guba criteria for rigor and trustworthiness. The study was approved by the National Committee for Ethics in Biomedical Research (IR.BMSU.REC.1399.070. available at: https://ethics.research.ac.ir).
Four hundred and 54 codes were identified, which were then sorted into 12 categories underlying four main themes of "hard and unpredictable," "posttraumatic growth," "on the path to self-determination," and "commitment."
Even though the undergraduate nursing students experienced some stress in the beginning, with close support, their caregiving skills improved and they were able to meet the national healthcare needs. More studies are needed to confirm our findings regarding the experiences of the nursing students in combating COVID-19.
Since the mass vaccination against SARS-CoV-2 was launched in Israel, the Arab ethnicity minority had lower vaccine uptake. The syndemics theory suggests a closely interrelated complex of health and social crises among vulnerable societies results in an increased disease burden or in more adverse health conditions. Syndemics may explain the health disparities between different people or communities. Likewise, acculturation was found to be associated with different health outcomes among minority populations. The purpose of the study is to explore the association between syndemic construct, acculturation style, and adherence to recommended COVID-19 vaccination among the Arab ethnicity in Israel.
A cross-sectional study among 305 participants who completed a self-report questionnaire. Syndemic construct (syndemics score and syndemics severity) was calculated from the participants' health behavior index, self-rated health status, and adherence to flu vaccination. Four acculturation strategies were defined according to Barry's acculturation model: assimilation, integration, separation, and marginalization style. Linear regression (stepwise method) was conducted to determine the explanatory factors for COVID-19 vaccine adherence.
Assimilation and separation acculturation styles and syndemics severity were significantly associated with higher adherence to the recommended COVID-19 vaccination (
Syndemics severity, assimilation and separation acculturation styles were associated with higher adherence to recommended COVID-19 vaccination in the Israeli Arab minority population. Syndemics score was not associated with recommended COVID-19 vaccination. To encourage COVID-19 vaccination among minority communities, campaigns should be tailored to the social determinants in a sensitive and individualized manner.
The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively affected the work of many medical professionals, including the group of nurses. This study aimed at assessing the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on job satisfaction of nursing staff in five European countries. The study was conducted using the Job Satisfaction Scale (SSP) and original questions on the job satisfaction. The cross-sectional online study was conducted with a sample of 1,012 professionally active nurses working in Poland, Germany, Italy, Great Britain and Sweden, who assessed their job satisfaction before (retrospectively) and during the pandemic. The results showed a significant decrease in job satisfaction due to the need to perform it during the pandemic caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. In 8 out of 10 examined parameters of job satisfaction, a statistically significant decrease in job satisfaction was observed at the level of 
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
COVID-19
Facemask
Health behavior
Regulation
COVID- Variants
Coronavirus disease
Herbal Therapies
Immunity Boosters
Preventive Techniques
Health humanities
Medical humanities
European semester
annual growth survey
economic knowledge
reproductive economy
social reproduction
CMR, Cardiac magnetic resonance
ECG, Electrocardiogram
EMB, Endomyocardial biopsy
HIV, Human immunodeficiency virus
LGE, Late gadolinium enhancement
LV, Left ventricle
LVEF, Left ventricular ejection fraction
PCR, Polymerase Chain Reaction
SARS-CoV-2, severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus-2019
TTE, transthoracic echocardiography
cardiac magnetic resonance
chest pain
monkeypox
myocarditis
COVID-19
California
Direct market
Direct-to-consumer farmers
Food systems
Resilience
COVID‐19
Omicron variant
cognitive decline
quarantine period
Machine learning models
Meta-analysis
Pandemic prediction
Systematic review
Binding affinity
Cellular factors
Fluorescence imaging
Force spectroscopy
HIV-1
Hemifusion
IAVs
Multivalent binding
SARS-CoV-2
Spike protein
Structural conformations
Virions
COVID-19
Parkinsion’s disease
entrectinib
irinotecan
systems biology
α-synuclein
COVID-19
atovaquone
clinical trial
double blind
placebo controlled
COVID-19
bioinformatics
colon adenocarcinoma
network pharmacology
prognostic model
quercetin
Electrochemical biosensor
Peptide-DNA nanoprobe
Protease inhibitor
SARS-CoV-2 papain-like cysteine protease
COVID-19
facemask
filtration efficiencies
nonwoven fabric
plastic waste
standardized testing
UK COVID‐19
food supply chains
food system
pandemic, development
sustainability
Automated text analysis
COVID-19
Exogenous shock
Service failure
eWOM
ETFs
Financial innovation
Hedge
Pandemic
Predictability
Emergency remote teaching
K-12 mathematics education
Technology integration
Virtual manipulatives
children
covid-19 infection
covid-19 virus
inflammation
liver failure
liver inflammation
misc
multisystem organ failure
pediatrics
sars-cov-2 virus
augmented reality
orthopaedic trauma surgery
rehabilitation
technology
virtual reality
coinfection
covid-19
crimean-congo hemorrhagic fever virus
dengue fever
dengue virus
public health
sars-cov-2
appendicitis
covid-19
ileocolic branch
lymphadenitis
mesenteric venous thrombosis
thrombophlebitis
covid-19
effusion
hemorrhagic
respiratory
tamponade
arthralgia
covid-19
musculoskeletal manifestations
myalgia
sars-cov-2
adolescent pregnancy
congenital anomalies
covid-19
low birth weight
neonatal outcome
preterm birth
stillbirth
acute polymyositis
covid-19
mixed connective tissue disease
myasthenic crisis
neuromuscular junction
systemic lupus erythema
systemic scleroderma
autoimmune limbic encephalitis
covid-19 encephalitis
encephalitis syndrome
limbic
sars-cov-2-associated encephalitis
COVID‐19
community disaster management
community resilience
multilevel modelling
pandemic
personal resilience
COVID‐19
ingroups
parenting
prosocial rule breaking
social norms
COVID‐19 emergency
S–O–R model
conditional green purchasing behavior
dual motivations
unconditional green purchasing behavior
Ethmoidectomy
Functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS)
Maxillectomy
Orbital exenteration
Post-COVID mucormycosis
Bone necrosis
Caldwell–Luc
Endoscopic surgery
FESS
Osteomyelitis
Rhinomaxillary mucormycosis
Sinus disease
Africa
COVID‐19
E‐governance
Kenya
South Africa
economic recovery
health policy
innovation policy
open government
open innovation
pandemic
policy responses
public administration
public innovation
science
technology
COVID-19 pandemic
Macau
Source separation
Theory of planned behavior (TPB)
Waste masks
COVID-19
China
Higher education
International partnership university
Online education
1D-CNN, One-dimensional-CNN
AC, Accuracy
AUC, Area under the curve
CNN, Convolutional neural network
Convolutional neural network
DT, Decision tree
F1, F1-score
HV-PPIs, Human-virus PPIs
HuV-PPI, Human–unknown virus PPI
Human
LR, Linear regression
MCC, Matthews correlation coefficient
PPIs, Protein-protein interactions
Protein–protein interaction
RF, Random forest
SARS-CoV-2
SARS-CoV-2, Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2
SN, Sensitivity
SP, Specificity
SVM, Support vector machine
T-SNE, T-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding
Virus
W2V, Word2vec
Word2vec
Hemorrhage
Mucosal inflammation
Nosebleed
SARS-CoV2-infection
Shock
Breast feeding
COVID-19
Child
Food insecurity
Infant
Malnutrition
Obesity
Covid-19
ICT beliefs
ICT usage
Information and communication technologies
emotions
health science students
COVID-19
Epidemiological Monitoring
Health policy
Open access
Primary Health
Public Health
COVID‐19
Turkey
centralized response
pandemic management
policy styles
Coronavirüs disease-2019
Left atrial functions
Left atrium
Echocardiography
SARS-CoV-2
strain
subclinical dysfunction
Asymptomatic competitive sports athlete
congenital heart defect
sports medicine and cardiology
ventricular septal aneurysm
ventricular septal defects
COVID-19
Commodity market prices
High-frequency data
Information spillover
Price jumps
Wavelet coherency
COVID-19 vaccine
IgE
anaphylaxis
basophil activation test
complement
COVID-19
contact tracing
cost–benefit trade-off
disease dynamics
large-scale contact networks
COVID
disease modelling
epidemic spread
analytical techniques
antiviral
clinical application
niclosamide
pesticide
COVID, Coronavirus Disease
ICMR, Indian Council of Medical Research
MoHFW, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
WHO, World Health Organization
Concrete
Coronavirus pandemic
Mechanical properties
PPE
Polypropylene fibers
COVID-19
Complex networks
Data–assimilation
Ensemble kalman filter
Epidemic spreading
Model identification
Covid-19 mathematical model
Existence of solution
Fractal-fractional calculus
Numerical simulations
Stability analysis
COVID‐19
chorea
choreiform movements
coronavirus
Aerosol measurement
COVID-19
Guideline
Hygiene and safety measures
Recreational facilities
asymptomatic infections
coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)
dynamic transmission
susceptibility–exposure–infection–recovery (SEIR)
symptomatic infections
COVID-19
adaptation
medical laboratory scientists
work environment
work in pandemic
COVID-19 Pakistan
Omicron and Delta variant
coronavirus in Pakistan
fifth wave in Pakistan
vaccine breakthrough cases
antigen rapid diagnostic test
coronavirus disease 2019
nucleocapsid gene
reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction
severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2
COVID-19
healthcare workers
mental health
occupational health
pandemic
perceptions
workplace responses
academic stressors
mental health
self-identity
social support
social well-being
work stressor
acute and critical care
meta-synthesis
nurses
occupational benefit perception
qualitative review
hot-summer and cold-winter region
operative temperature
questionnaire survey
rural area
thermal adaptive behavior
thermal sensation vote
COVID-19
D-dimer
SpO2
breathing technique
mindfulness
yoga
community disaster preparedness
flood risk perception
preventive behaviors
response to flood risk
social capital
the COVID-19
COVID-19
emerging communicable diseases
health communication
population health
quality of life
risk factors
social stigma
vulnerable populations
COVID-19
Mendelian randomization
causal inference
insomnia
sleep duration
COVID-19
in-home care
older adults
vaccine
vulnerable populations
COVID-19 vaccine
attitude
chronic disease
intention
knowledge
desserts consumption
district economic level
early childhood caries
oral epidemiological investigation
risk factors
COVID-19 incidence
SARS-CoV-2
public health policy
social determinants of health
socio-economic risk factors
classification
latent
liver
multivariate analysis
statistics
COVID-19 pandemic
Latinx immigrant families
mental health
providers
qualitative research and analysis
COVID-19
experience
nursing student
perception
posttraumatic growth
COVID-19
infectious diseases
prevention
screening
surveillance
treatment
vaccine
COVID-19 vaccination
acculturation style
health behavior
self-rated health status
syndemics theory
COVID-19
Europe
job satisfaction
nursing
pandemic
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
